Release Notes 
#  1 May 2026 release summary 
04 May 2026
Activation precinct certificate 
Controlled activity approvals 
State DA 
BASIX 
Development Applications 
Major Projects 
This release includes: 
  * new amendment request functionality for the development application services (Council and   
State) 
  * minor changes to the Activation precinct certificate service, Development application services   
(Council and State) and Major Projects Portal 
  * enhancements to the BASIX and Controlled activity approval services. 


There are also some technical updates and fixes. View the sections below to understand the changes.   

## Major features / New functionality 
### Development application (Council and State) services 
This release includes the introduction of new functionality to support an applicant requesting an   
amendment to their development or modification application under sections 37 and 113 of the   
Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021. This functionality was co-designed with NSW   
Councils. 
  * Applicants can select ‘Request amendment’ from the ‘Actions’ menu of the related development  
or modification application after lodgement and before the related application has been   
determined. Once requested, a new request will be created with reference starting with ‘AMDR’. 
  * Once the amendment request is submitted: 
    * A system generated amendment request document will be generated. This will appear in   
the ‘Documents’ tab within the amendment request and the related development or   
modification application. This can be viewed by the applicant and the consent authority.
    * The applicant and consent authority will receive email notification when the amendment   
request is submitted, cancelled or withdrawn. 
    * The consent authority will have the option to ‘Request additional info’ to support the   
request. When this occurs the amendment request status changes to ‘Additional   
information requested’. 
    * The applicant and consent authority will receive email notification of additional information   
request and when a response has been provided. 
    * Applicants can respond to additional information request, and when they do the status of   
the amendment request will change back to ‘Under consideration’. 
  * Applicants can cancel the amendment request prior to submission and can withdraw the request   
after submission. The consent authority can withdraw the amendment request on the applicants’   
behalf after submission. 
  * The consent authority can approve or reject an application to amend a development or   
modification application. 
  * Applicants and consent authority will receive an email notification when the outcome of the   
amendment request has been input. This notification will also be sent to agencies that have an   
open or closed concurrence and referral request, and to the Planning Panel Secretariat if   
relevant. 
  * When the amendment request is approved as minor: 
    * the consent authority can provide comments and upload supporting documents when   
entering the outcome. A new document category of ‘Response to request for amendment’   
has been implemented to support this functionality. 
    * the consent authority must use the ‘Edit application details’ functionality to amend the   
related development or modification application details to reflect the approved amendment   
request. 
  * When the amendment request is approved as non-minor: 
    * the development application will revert to the ‘Preliminary assessment’ screen. All consent   
authority entered fields will be editable. The consent authority can create a new   
concurrence and referral request and exhibition process for the amended application.
    * the consent authority can provide comments and upload supporting documents when   
entering the outcome. A new document category of ‘Response to request for amendment’   
has been implemented to support this functionality. 
    * the consent authority must use the ‘Edit application details’ functionality to amend the   
related development or modification application details to reflect the approved amendment   
request. 
    * any existing contribution case (CON) will be cancelled, and a new ‘CON’ case will be   
created. 
    * the ‘Application lodged’ date will update to the ‘Amendment request submitted’ date in the   
‘Amendment details’ tab within the amendment request and the ‘Lodgement Details’ section   
of the ‘Application details’ and ‘Analytics’ tabs in the related development or modification   
application. 
    * the lodgement date used for council league tables is updated to the ‘Amendment request   
submitted’ date. For development applications with multiple approved non-minor   
amendments, the council league tables will use the most recent revised lodgement date to   
calculate the assessment days. The original lodgement date will be retained and used for   
the calculation of lodgement days. 
    * the updated lodgement date will be populated on the BASIX Alterations and Additions   
application. Validation for revision will be based on original lodgement date as it was   
already lodged as part of the development application. 
  * When rejecting the request: 
    * the consent authority must add information in the ‘Reason for rejection’ section. A new   
document category ‘Response to request for amendment’ is available for selection by the   
consent authority if uploading documents to support this outcome.
  * Once the related development or modification application is determined, any open amendment   
requests and related additional information cases, will automatically close. 
  * If the related development or modification application has been referred to the Planning Panel,   
and that application has been determined by the Planning Panel, an applicant cannot request an   
amendment. 
  * If the related development or modification application has been referred to the Planning Panel,   
and that application is under consideration, the consent authority must liaise with the relevant   
Planning Panel outside of the Portal and enter the amendment review request outcome on the   
Planning Panels’ behalf into the NSW Planning Portal.   



## Minor changes to existing workflows   

### Activation Precinct Certificate service 
In the Activation precinct certificate application commencement screen, there will be a warning   
message when the site address does not fall within the defined precinct spatial areas. The   
message will read: ‘The site is not in a Special Activation Precinct. A new Activation Precinct   
Certificate application cannot be submitted for this site, select ‘Cancel’ to close the application.   
To ‘Request to Modify’ a previously issued Activation Precinct Certificate, select ‘Submit’ to   
continue the application.’ 
  * Applicants cannot progress an Activation precinct certificate application when the site address   
does not fall within the defined precinct spatial areas. There will be an error message on   
commencement and review screens, ‘The site is not in a Special Activation Precinct. A new   
Activation Precinct Certificate application cannot be submitted for this site, select ‘Close’ to exit   
this application.’. 
  * Introduction of 13 additional referral agencies and councils for selection by Regional Growth   
NSW Development Corporation (RGDC) users on the ‘Initiate a referral request’ screen. 
  * Minor updates to 7 system generated emails to reflect legislation reference changes. 


### Concurrence and referral service 
The modification application type selected on the related modification application will be   
displayed on the concurrence and referral request. That is: New modification types introduced as   
part of Planning Reforms will only be shown on concurrence and referral requests where the   
application was submitted after 20 March 2026. 
### Development application (Council) service 
  * In the ‘Online DA’ service, when an applicant enters an address that falls within a defined   
activation precinct area, they will be advised to create their development application via the ‘State   
DA’ service. The error message displayed reads: ‘The site is in a Special Activation Precinct and   
requires a State Development Application. To lodge a State Development Application, create a   
new Development Application, enter the site of development on the first screen and the system   
will automatically select a State Development Application or select ‘Create new State DA’ from   
the ‘Actions’ dropdown menu.’. 
  * When an applicant started their ‘Review of determination’ application prior to 20 March 2026, and   
they entered a PAN reference number that was determined more than 6 months ago, they will be   
unable to submit the application. An error message will be displayed: ‘This application was   
determined over six months ago and a request to review the determination is not available.   
Select the 'modification' application type if you want to request a modification to your   
development application, or select 'development application' to start a new application.’. 


### Development application (State) service 
  * In the ‘State DA’ service, when an applicant enters an address that falls within a defined   
activation precinct area, the application will be automatically assigned to the Regional Growth   
Development Corporation for review and assessment. The information message displayed reads:   
‘The site is in a Special Activation Precinct. Applications for sites in this area are assessed by the   
Department of Planning, Housing and Infrastructure.’. 
  * When an applicant indicates they are applying for a modification application, the wording of the   
options for the question ‘What type of modification application is requested?’ on the ‘Application   
details’ screen are changed to ‘Modification involving minor error, misdescription, or   
miscalculation or modifications with no environmental impact – Section 4.55(1)’. 
  * New help text under the ‘Modification type’ heading: ‘Modifications of existing applications are   
allowed under sections 4.55 or 4.56 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979. If   
the proposal changes too much, a new development application must be submitted.’ 
  * The system generated ‘Pre-DA form’ has been updated to show the new modification type. 
  * Introduction of warning message on the ‘Preliminary assessment’, ‘Final assessment’ and   
‘Capture determination’ screens to notify consent authorities that a section 4.55(1) modification   
application must be determined within 14 days. The warning banner is as follows: ‘A minor   
modification application must be determined within 14 days. You must determine this application   
by [dd/mm/yyyy]. After this date, the modification application cannot be refused. If the last day of   
the 14-day period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, public holiday or bank holiday, the determination   
date is automatically extended to the next business day. This timeframe does not apply to an   
application which seeks to modify a housing and productivity contribution condition, unless the   
proposed modification has been approved by the Minister’. 


### Major Projects   

The following changes were made to the Major Projects service as part of this release to support   
Planning System Reforms: 
  * For a State Significant Development (SSD) modification under section 4.55(1) a new email   
notification to the relevant director and assessing officer will be sent 1 day prior to the   
determination deadline advising that the determination period will end the following day. 
  * When assessing an SSD modification under section 4.55(1), assessing officers can only create a   
minor request for information (RFI). Where a major request for information (RFI) was previously   
created for an application, the existing request for information (RFI) will continue to follow existing   
workflow. 
  * Assessing officers will have an internal KPI of 12 days to assess section 4.55(1) modification   
applications. Directors will have an internal KPI of 2 days to approve or refuse section 4.55(1)   
modification applications at the ‘Recommendation stage’. 
  * For modification applications where the proponent selects Section 4.56 as the modification type,   
the labels displayed on assessing officer screens at completeness check will now align with the   
labels used at the time the application was submitted. Applications submitted before 21 March   
2026 will continue to display the old labels on assessing officer screens, and applications   
submitted on or after 21 March 2026 will display the new labels. 
  * For SSD modifications under section 4.55(1) the banner displayed from assessment through to   
determination has been updated to remove the word ‘date’. 
  * The banner displayed when creating a request for information (RFI) for SSD modifications under   
section 4.55(1) has been removed to align with the minor modification assessment process. 


##    
Enhancements 
  
Following consultation with stakeholders, this release includes enhancements to the following services.   

### BASIX service 
  * Applicants can retain the data entered when switching between ‘DIY’, ‘Simulation method’ and   
‘Passive House standard’ assessment methods for a 'new homes' BASIX application. This   
applies to single dwelling and multi dwelling applications.
  * Applicants can select from different grades of concrete as an internal wall type in the ‘Low   
emissions’ field when ‘Concrete’ is selected in the ‘Construction type’ field of a 'new homes'   
BASIX application. This applies to single dwelling and multi dwelling applications. 
  * Applicants can select ‘5 star (> 4.5 but <= 6 L/min)’ for field ‘Water rating of showerheads’, if the   
water consumption is between 4.5 and 6 litres per minute. This applies to single dwelling and   
multi dwelling applications. 
  * Applicants can select more glazing options with low Solar Heat Gain Coefficient (SHGC) values   
for ‘Frame and glass type’ field in an ‘Alterations and Additions’ BASIX application. 
  * Applicants can select ventilation system types for ‘Bathroom exhaust’, ‘Kitchen exhaust’ and   
‘Laundry exhaust’ without a ‘roof’ ventilation option in a 'new homes' BASIX application. This   
applies to single dwelling and multi dwelling applications, whilst aligning with the NCC 2022   
condensation management requirements. 
  * Upgrade from version 4.03 to 4.04 for all BASIX application types. Applicants can accommodate   
the version upgrade without affecting older cases. Previous cases will remain in the version they   
were created in. 
  * In a “new homes” BASIX multi-dwelling application, applicants will have clearer guidance on how   
to complete the materials section if the application involves separate dwellings as well as shared   
common areas in separate buildings. Applicants can select ‘Unit and other buildings – All’ from   
the dropdown values on the relevant screen. Applies to multi dwelling applications only, excluding   
revised certificates. This change does not apply to revised certificates for multi dwelling   
applications. 
  * Applicants can select the ‘Green Square Town Centre’ option for the ‘Reticulated alternative   
water supply’ field if the application address is under postcode 2015. This applies to single   
dwelling applications and multi dwelling applications. 
  * Applicants can see the number of ‘straw-bale panels’ on their ‘new homes’ BASIX Certificates   
when they select this as an option in the ‘Construction type’ field. 
  * BASIX help and information links have been reviewed and updated across the service. 
  * Applicants must tick a compulsory check box to confirm that the information they have provided   
(including any NatHERS Assessor information if applicable) is true and correct before generating   
a BASIX Certificate. Providing incorrect and/or false information is a breach of the BASIX Terms   
and Conditions, which may result in compliance action by the Department. This applies to all   
BASIX application types. 
  * BASIX applicants can request increases to default limits on dwelling numbers in multi-dwelling   
application, up to an overall limit of 1000 dwellings across all dwelling types (single, multi and unit   
buildings). Help text has been added to assist users with this request. 
  * Help text has been added to display the limits that apply to the number of dwellings applicants   
can add for each dwelling type and the overall limit. 
  * For all BASIX application types, applications that are already in progress will be able to proceed   
without impacting the expected dropdown values and calculation scores carried over from older   
versions of the BASIX service. 
  * The BASIX Report and BASIX Certificate will display how many photovoltaic (PV) panel groups   
were in the alternative energy section of the 'new homes' BASIX multi-dwelling application. This   
applies to multi dwelling applications only, excluding revised certificates. 
  * The BASIX Report and BASIX Certificate for 'new homes' BASIX applications will display the   
thermal performance method used for assessment (DIY, Simulation or Passive House Standard).   
This applies to single dwelling and multi dwelling applications. 
  * The BASIX Report and BASIX Certificate will display the correct selection for Bathroom exhaust   
when “individual fan, ducted to façade” is selected. This applies to single dwelling applications   
only. 
  * BASIX Administrator users will be able to increase the dwelling number limits across all dwelling   
types in BASIX multi-dwelling applications, up to an overall limit of 1,000 dwellings. 
  * BASIX Administrator users can search for projects by creation date.   



### Controlled activity approvals service 
The character limit for the email address input in field ‘Applicant email in CAA approval’, has   
been increased from 50 to 255 characters. This update will allow users to enter longer,   
organisation-specific email addresses without encountering input restrictions. 
## Technical updates and minor fixes 
  * Email notifications sent to the applicant to confirm their submission for the exhibition of a   
development application, has been updated to populate the name of the consent authority name   
in the body of the email. This change has been made in the Online DA and State DA services. 
  * When the nominated developer initiates an occupation certificate, the data from the related   
development application or complying development certificate will populate the request. 
  * Withdrawn subdivision certificate referral cases will now appear in the ‘Completed Workbasket’. 


## Application Programming Interface (API)   

Updates have been made to the Application Programming Interface (API) to support recent   
enhancements to the development application (online and state) services. These updates should be   
included in councils’ next scheduled API upgrade. 
There are three new APIs to support the introduction of the amendment functionality in this release: 
  * CreateAmendment’: Initiates a new amendment request for an existing application and transfers   
the amendment data from the NSW Planning Portal to council systems. 
  * ‘UpdateAmendment’: Transfers updates to amendment details during the assessment process,   
ensuring both systems remain in sync. 
  * ‘ReviewAmendment’: Enables councils to review and record assessment outcomes, with   
decisions communicated back to the NSW Planning Portal. 


The following APIs are reused and enhanced to support amendment-related use cases: 
  * ‘UpdateDA’ and ‘UpdateStateDA’: Allows updates to lodgement dates during the process ensuring   
both systems remain in sync. 
  * ‘Withdraw’: Extended to allow withdrawal of amendment requests, in addition to the   
existing standard application withdrawals. 
  * ‘ReqAddInfo’: Reused to request further information from applicants specifically for amendment   
cases. 
  * ‘CloseAICase’: Extended to support closure of amendment-related additional information cases. 
  * UpdateAdditonalInfo: Reused to support ‘provide additional information’ operation by applicant 


Note: All these changes will be made to the Online DA service v2 API and Online State DA service v1   
API.   

## Training and support 
The following step-by-step guides have been updated or created this month and can be access on the   
Support Hub : 
  * How to request an amendment to a development or modification application 
  * How to review and approve or reject a request to amend a development or modification   
application 
  * How to notify an applicant of critical stage inspections 
  * How to submit a Section 10.7 Planning Certificate 
  * How to review and determine a Section 10.7 Planning Certificate 
  * How to create and submit a section 3.22 planning proposal
  * How to assess and finalise a section 3.22 planning proposal 


The Department offers free training for NSW Planning Portal users. Training that is related to this   
release includes: 
  * How to request an amendment to a development application (applicant user) 
  * How to review and reject or approve a request for an amendment to a development   
application (council users) 
  * How to use the edit development application functionality (council users) 
  * How to determine a development or modification application on the NSW Planning Portal (council   
users) 
  * How to review, assess and determine an occupation certificate application (council / certifier   
user)


## Other news
**News**
05 May 2026
###  [ BASIX tool upgrades now live ](https://www.planningportal.nsw.gov.au/news/basix-tool-upgrades-now-live)
Learn about recent BASIX tool updates to improve usability and flexibility.
[read more](https://www.planningportal.nsw.gov.au/news/basix-tool-upgrades-now-live)
**Release Notes**
30 March 2026
###  [ 27 March 2026 release summary ](https://www.planningportal.nsw.gov.au/news/27-march-2026-release-summary)
This release includes stakeholder requested enhancements to the Major Projects and NSW Planning Portals.
[read more](https://www.planningportal.nsw.gov.au/news/27-march-2026-release-summary)
Back to topnorth
