<<<<<<< HEAD
**HOST** : A great initiative from the Australian Federal Government announced yesterday and that is that the Albanese Government is backing the Rugby League World Cup to the tune of the $12.4 million investment. I'm happy to say that the 31st Prime Minister of Australia, Anthony Albanese is on the line. Good morning, Prime Minister.
**ANTHONY ALBANESE, PRIME MINISTER** : Good morning. Happy Origin Day.
**HOST** : Indeed. Indeed. And of course after the Origin we'll have the Rugby League World Cup. What has prompted this investment into the competition that will be run across Australia, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea?
**PRIME MINISTER** : Look, this will be fantastic. It will take the great game of Rugby League to an even bigger stage with games held in PNG, New Zealand, but here in Australia, games in Townsville and Newcastle as well as Sydney and Brisbane, of course. So, it's going to be really exciting. It's a chance to really promote the game and to also build harmony in our region. Of course, Rugby League is something that brings people together. And the initiative, the new PNG Chiefs team is going to be fantastic. From a couple of years’ time now it will be, I think, everyone's second team, and the international game is going from strength to strength. This will help to bring not just men but women as well is really important. We know the impact that the Women's Soccer World Cup had here in Australia. It really promoted for young people – we want young people to get off their devices and onto the footy fields as well as other sporting arenas.
**HOST** : Albo, you said happy Origin Day. Are we going to be happy at 10 o'clock tonight?
**PRIME MINISTER** : Well, we'll find out, mate. It's always tough. Queensland fires up and they seem to grow an extra leg at Origin time. But they're two pretty close sides, I've got to say. I don't think there's an overwhelming favourite this time round, but I think Nathan Cleary will get us home for the Blues, I certainly hope.
**HOST** : Yeah, no doubt about that. Prime Minister, you mentioned PNG Chiefs there. Have you been impressed with the manner in which they've hit the ground running since their announcement? And obviously it's a very unique situation that we have with a sporting club that's been promoted by two separate governments.
**PRIME MINISTER** : This is about the relationship between Australia and PNG. I had the great privilege a couple of years ago of walking the Kokoda Track with Prime Minister Marape. And what's extraordinary from that experience, apart from the obvious, which is just being in awe of what those extraordinary Australian men did during World War II in the thick of jungle, suffering from malaria and the hardship they went through. But they were assisted, of course, by the Fuzzy Wuzzy Angels, as they were called. And the people of PNG really were defending their own country as well as, of course, it being the front line of Australia at that time. And that relationship is so strong. But you go through this really thick jungle, thicker than I thought it was going to be. It was tougher than I thought. But you enter a plain where there's a village and all the kids have Queensland Origin jumpers on, or Broncos or Rabbitohs or Dragons, they just love their Rugby League. It is something that brings that country together. It's a country of 400 languages and all of these tribes unite. Tonight there'll be no one on the street when the Origin game's on. They'll all be watching. And it will be just so important for the economic development as well. In order to play footy, you've got to go to school, you've got to do your education, you've got to do all that as well. So, it will inspire the young people of PNG. I think it's a really great example of us making a positive difference. And I think the NRL have been fantastic. Peter V'landys, a shout out to Andrew Abdo for the work that he's done as the CEO as well.
**HOST** : Yeah, well, you must have mixed feelings around that the PNG Chiefs, because they've already made a second acquisition as a player, that's the Rabbitohs record try scoring record holder in Alex Johnson, who you famously or infamously went on the field to celebrate with when he did break that record. So, I guess mixed feelings about the Chiefs and their recruitment?
**PRIME MINISTER** : No. All the best for AJ. He has represented PNG at the national level and he is such a great human being and I think a great way for him to end his career. So, I think that, I certainly wish him well. It might be that he can get to 250 the way he's going after another couple of seasons.
**HOST** : Yeah. Now, Prime Minister Greg Alexander who is here beside me, he tells me that your serve volley game is not to be messed with and it can be very challenging. Do you have recollections of playing tennis with Greg?
**PRIME MINISTER** : I certainly do. He's pretty fast around the court –
**HOST** : Yes.
**PRIME MINISTER** : Funnily enough as well he's a lot fitter than I am. But it's, it's all good fun. We've had, we've had a few really good matches and very competitive, but played in good spirit.
**HOST** : Oh we have. It's been a while since I've had a hit, Albo. Are you, are you still getting on the court or you're too busy?
**PRIME MINISTER** : Mate, a couple of weeks ago was the Sydney Badge Comp I play for Marrickville in. A couple of weeks ago we had a match, our team versus Sydney University, and there's four on each team. It was an away game. We worked out that between us, our four and their four, because they were 19, 21, 22 and 24, we were 170 years older than them, our team, but we held our own and, and had a draw.
**HOST** : Well, very good, very well played and look, there's a few questions coming in here about negative gearing and Capital Gains. But the only gains that we are interested in, Albo, is the gains for the Rugby League World Cup. A big thank you to the Federal Government in their support of that event and appreciate your time this morning.
**PRIME MINISTER** : Fantastic. And enjoy the game tonight.
**HOST** : You better give us a score prediction for tonight please, Prime Minister.
**PRIME MINISTER** : New South Wales 16 - 10.
**HOST** : Yeah, we'll take that. We'll take that. There you go, the early crow. Thank you for your time, Prime Minister.
**HOST** : Thanks, Anthony.
**PRIME MINISTER** : Cheers.
=======
### Date
25 May 2026
### Topics
[Buying and selling products and services](https://www.accc.gov.au/news-centre?view_args=accc_news&f%5B0%5D=topics%3A124)
[Pricing](https://www.accc.gov.au/news-centre?view_args=accc_news&f%5B0%5D=topics%3A153)
[Postal services](https://www.accc.gov.au/news-centre?view_args=accc_news&f%5B0%5D=topics%3A152)
The ACCC is seeking feedback from businesses and consumers on its [preliminary view ](https://www.accc.gov.au/system/files/accc-preliminary-view-on-australia-post-december-2025-draft-price-notification.pdf?ref=0&download=y)not to object to Australia Post’s proposed stamp price increase of 8.8 per cent from mid-to late-2026.
Australia Post’s [draft price notification](https://www.accc.gov.au/by-industry/postal-services/postal-services-price-notification-and-monitoring/australia-post-letter-pricing-2025/australia-post-draft-price-notification) submitted in December 2025 proposes the following price increases:  
  
|  **Letter type**  |  **Current price**  |  **Proposed price**  |  **Increase**  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- |  
|  Small letter (basic postage rate)  |  $1.70  |  $1.85  |  8.8%  |  
|  Large letter up to 125g  |  $3.40  |  $3.70  |  8.8%  |  
|  Large letter between 125 and 250g  |  $5.10  |  $5.55  |  8.8  |  
Australia Post is not proposing to increase the price of concession stamps (60 cents each) or seasonal greeting card stamps (65 cents each).
Earlier this year, Australia Post also increased the number of concession stamps available to eligible consumers from 50 to 75 each year, in response to a recommendation from the ACCC.
After assessing the draft price notification, the ACCC has found that Australia Post’s reserved letter service revenue is unlikely to exceed its efficient costs.
“Our assessment found Australia Post will likely fall slightly short of covering its efficient costs with the proposed price increase,” ACCC Commissioner Anna Brakey said.
“Without a price increase on stamps, Australia Post’s reserved letter service would be likely to experience a much larger shortfall.”
Australia Post continues to highlight declining letter volumes as the primary cause of financial pressure on its letter service, with letter volumes forecast to further decline by approximately 10 per cent annually over the coming years.
Despite declining letter volumes, the ACCC notes that Australia Post’s losses for its reserved letter service appear to be decreasing, in part due to successive stamp price increases in 2023, 2024 and 2025.
Further, the ACCC expects losses from the reserved letter service in 2026-27 will be smaller than Australia Post’s forecast.
Australia Post estimates the proposed price increase will impact the average household by 75 cents per year, but some consumers will be affected more significantly.
“Businesses and organisations who send large mail volumes will be most affected by the proposed price increase, particularly those required by law to communicate by post,” Ms Brakey said.
In forming its preliminary view, the ACCC considered stakeholder feedback provided in the [early-2026 consultation process](https://www.accc.gov.au/by-industry/postal-services/postal-services-price-notification-and-monitoring/australia-post-letter-pricing-2025/consultation-on-australia-post-draft-price-notification). While the ACCC acknowledges public opposition to the proposed increase, it assessed the proposal using a cost-based approach [consistent with its role](https://www.accc.gov.au/by-industry/postal-services/postal-services-price-notification-and-monitoring#toc-we-assess-price-notifications).
The ACCC does not approve any proposed price increase under the Australia Post price notification framework. Only the Minister for Communications has the power to reject a price increase proposed by Australia Post.
Consultation on the ACCC’s preliminary view paper is open until Monday 22 June 2026.
Submissions can be sent by email to postalservices@accc.gov.au(link sends email) .
For more information about the consultation process, including guidelines for making a submission, see [consultation on ACCC preliminary view](https://www.accc.gov.au/by-industry/postal-services/postal-services-price-notification-and-monitoring/australia-post-letter-pricing-2025-26/consultation-on-accc-preliminary-view).
## **Note for editors**
Australia Post's proposal is not an additional increase to letter costs, but the same draft proposal as previously discussed in this February 2026 media release - [ACCC seeks views on Australia Post's proposed stamp price increase](https://www.accc.gov.au/media-release/accc-seeks-views-on-australia-posts-proposed-stamp-price-increase).
## **Background**
Under the Competition and Consumer Act, the ACCC is responsible for assessing proposed price increases by Australia Post for its reserved ordinary letter services delivered to the regular timetable.
Australia Post’s reserved ordinary letter services are services for which Australia Post has a statutory monopoly and are declared as ‘notified services’ under the Competition and Consumer Act. The current declaration for Australia Post’s notified services is due to expire on 31 December 2028.
The ACCC must consider Australia Post’s proposed price increases for these services and may decide to:
  * not object to the price increase
  * not object to a price that is less than that proposed, or
  * object to the price increase.


The lodgement by Australia Post of a draft price notification provides the ACCC with time to undertake a public consultation process and preliminary economic assessment of the proposed increase. Once Australia Post submits a formal price notification, the ACCC will issue a final decision within 21 days.
Australia Post is also required to provide written notice of the proposed price increase to the Minister for Communications. It can only increase the basic postage rate if the Minister does not disapprove the proposal within 30 days.
The last price notification from Australia Post considered by the ACCC was in [2024](https://www.accc.gov.au/by-industry/postal-services/postal-services-price-notification-and-monitoring/australia-post-letter-pricing-2024), and prior to that in [2023](https://www.accc.gov.au/by-industry/postal-services/postal-services-price-notification-and-monitoring/australia-post-letter-pricing-2023) and [2022](https://www.accc.gov.au/by-industry/postal-services/postal-services-price-notification-and-monitoring/australia-post-letter-pricing-2022).
While the ACCC did not object to Australia Post’s last price notification, it made a series of recommendations in its [June 2025 decision](https://www.accc.gov.au/by-industry/postal-services/postal-services-price-notification-and-monitoring/australia-post-letter-pricing-2024/accc-decision) regarding cost allocation, forecast data and customer engagement. A summary of Australia Post’s implementation of these recommendations is available at Appendix 2 of the draft price notification.
###  Release number
41/26
### General enquiries
[Submit an online enquiry](https://www.accc.gov.au/about-us/contact-us-or-report-an-issue/make-an-enquiry "https://www.accc.gov.au/about-us/contact-us-or-report-an-issue/make-an-enquiry") to ask a question or you can   
[make a report](https://www.accc.gov.au/about-us/contact-us-or-report-an-issue/report-a-consumer-issue "https://www.accc.gov.au/about-us/contact-us-or-report-an-issue/report-a-consumer-issue") to help us understand where there are problems.
### Media enquiries
media@accc.gov.au or 1300 138 917. The media team is only able to answer requests and questions from journalists. Please only call this number if you are a journalist.
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
