  1. [Home](
  2. [Latest news](
  3. Written Reply to Parliamentary Question on Noise Emissions


Parliament Q&A
2 March 2026
Written Reply to Parliamentary Question on Noise Emissions by Ms Grace Fu, Minister for Sustainability and the Environment.
**_Questions_** _:_
**Dr Charlene Chen:** To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment (a) what outreach or educational efforts are undertaken to remind foreign drivers, including regular cross-border commuters, of Singapore’s vehicle noise emission standards; and (b) whether the Ministry will work with LTA to incorporate noise compliance reminders into Vehicle Entry Permit (VEP) and Autopass application processes.
**Dr Charlene Chen:** To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment in respect of the 126,820 vehicular fines issued to foreign-registered vehicles in 2025, (a) how many were for noise emission violations; and (b) what have been the year-on-year percentage changes in noise-related summonses issued at land checkpoints over the past three years.
**_Combined Answer:_**
All motorists, including those driving foreign-registered vehicles, must comply with Singapore's vehicular noise emission limits. The National Environment Agency (NEA) publicises key changes to vehicular emissions policies through media channels as well as posters at land entry checkpoints. Foreign motorists remain responsible for familiarising themselves with our regulations before entering Singapore.
In 2025, 217 fines were issued to foreign-registered vehicles for exceeding the noise emission limits. This was higher than the 106 fines issued in 2024 and 154 fines issued in 2023. The significant increase between 2023 and 2025 can be attributed to enhanced enforcement with a wider coverage in Singapore.
During enforcement blitzes at or near our checkpoints, NEA officers deployed on-site will identify vehicles suspected of exceeding the noise emission limits, and direct them to dedicated spaces for further testing to minimise impact on traffic flow. NEA has explored the use of acoustic cameras to enhance enforcement, but they were found to have limited accuracy and reliability in attributing the source of noise to a specific vehicle under the crowded traffic conditions at our checkpoints. Nonetheless, NEA will continue to explore the use of technologies to facilitate enforcement against noisy vehicles.
[](
