<<<<<<< HEAD
25 May 2026
Funding will support 34 regional and remote airports impacted by Rex Airlines’ voluntary administration.
The Australian Government provided $4.8 million in critical financial relief to the successful program applicants, helping to:
  * address the financial impact of unpaid claims
  * support critical aviation services connecting regional and remote communities 
  * reduce the likelihood of airport or council services suffering, and
  * ensure residents are not impacted.


The program found 95% of applicants suitable to receive relief payments, and enough funding will be provided to cover all eligible debt.
The Australian Government announced the funding relief earlier this year in February and grant applications closed in March.
## Find out more
  * Read the [Minister’s media release](https://minister.infrastructure.gov.au/c-king/media-release/australian-government-delivering-48-million-relief-regional-and-remote-airports)
  * Visit the [Regional and Remote Airport Support Program website](https://www.infrastructure.gov.au/infrastructure-transport-vehicles/aviation/regional-remote-aviation/regional-airports-program "Regional Airports Program")


=======
[ Listen ](https://app-oc.readspeaker.com/cgi-bin/rsent?customerid=7448&lang=en_au&readid=content&url=https%3A//www.pm.gov.au/media/address-walk-truth "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker")
Can I welcome you, Travis, here to Parliament House, to the centre of our nation's democracy.
Next year, just down the road there, we’ll celebrate a century since Parliament first met here in Canberra.
And at that time, it was of course, the First Nations man walked here, because First Nations people weren't included at that time, of course.
And we know that back in 1901 there was no one from First Nations people at the Royal Exhibition Hall in Melbourne, where just a couple of weeks ago we celebrated the formation of Australia as a Federation, when we came together.
But it is unfinished business, the business of reconciliation.
We, those of us who are either descendants of, who've come to Australia as migrants or are descendants of people who've come here, share a great privilege, that sharing this continent with the oldest continuous culture on Earth.
And today, like every day, I pay tribute to the Traditional Owners of the land on which we're meeting, and pay my respect to elders, past, present, and emerging. And Auntie Violet, my friend is here as well, as such an important person here in Canberra.
We have a long way to go.
The journey of reconciliation, though, does advance.
There are bumps in the road.
It's not a straight journey, as progress never is.
But I assure you that we'll continue to walk with you.
I had the privilege on Friday night of walking with Michael Long near the G, and that was a very uplifting experience, the celebration that occurred there, recognition of First Nations people in the Sir Doug Nicholls Round.
Something – I was there and Richmond hosted the event.
There was absolute respect.
And we'll be a stronger nation when there is proper and full recognition of First Nations people, and of course a full acknowledgement of our history, the pluses and the negatives.
But First Nations people are the core, the central part of the Australian story going back 65,000 years.
So, I thank you for your leadership.
I thank everyone who's come from far and distant lands here, from different countries.
I was with Marion and Malarndirri in Alice, just, seems like a long time ago, but just last Wednesday as well with family and elders there for what has been a very difficult and traumatic experience for First Nations people everywhere.
So, my government will continue to engage with you, and I thank you for being here today.
You've got a fantasti, I'm very proud of the Minister that we have following along from the work that Linda Burney did.
Pleased to see so many of my colleagues from the government here.
And we will continue to have engagement and dialogue with you on how we continue to walk towards that objective, which is in the interest not just of First Nations people, but in the interests of uplifting all Australians as well.
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
