**ANTHONY ALBANESE, PRIME MINISTER:** Good morning, thanks for joining us. Can I just begin by giving a shout out to the communities, particularly in the Northern Territory, but as well in Queensland? A large monsoon trough remains over the top end of the Northern Territory and it's impacting communities across the Big Rivers region. Heavy rain as well is there in South East Queensland as the tropical low continues to track south. South East Queensland is expected to experience large rainfall totals today. So, people in the path of these weather systems should prioritise their safety by following flood advice and warnings, staying aware of surroundings and avoiding hazards like flood waters. If it's flooded, forget it. We can't say it too many times. And so if people follow that advice, we'll continue to provide support as we always do with the state and territory governments.
The Iranian conflict in the Middle East began just over a week ago and Iran's reprisal attacks continue to escalate already at a scale and depth we haven't seen before. Twelve countries across the region, from Cyprus through to the Gulf are continuing to be targeted. The United Arab Emirates alone has been forced to shoot down over 1,500 rockets and drones. This growing wave of dangerous and destabilising attacks from Iran puts civilian lives at risk, of course including Australian lives, of which there are more than 20,000 people based in the UAE. In responding to requests, following a conversation that I had with the President Mohammed bin Zayed and other requests, Australia will deploy an E-7A Wedgetail, to the Gulf to help protect and defend Australians and other civilians. The Wedgetail will provide long range reconnaissance capability which will help to protect and secure the airspace above the Gulf. The Wedgetail and supporting Australian Defence Force personnel will be deployed for an initial four weeks in support of the collective self defence of Gulf nations. Additionally, in response to a request, my government intends to provide advanced medium range Air-to-Air missiles to the United Arab Emirates.
The first priority of my government is and always will be to keep Australians safe. There are around 115,000 Australians in the Middle East, around 24,000 of those in the UAE. Helping Australians means also helping the UAE and other Gulf nations to defend themselves against what are unprovoked attacks. My government has been clear that we're not taking offensive action against Iran. And we've been clear that we are not deploying Australian troops on the ground in Iran. We continue to work on contingencies to keep Australians safe and to help travellers leave the Middle East. We've already sent DFAT personnel to the region as part of crisis response teams. They're on the ground providing consular support. More than 2,600 Australians have now returned home, but significant challenges remain and further work is underway to support those still seeking to leave. We again say to people, if you're trying to come back to Australia and you're offered a seat, please take it, take the opportunity.
Australia has supported action aimed at preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon and preventing Iran from continuing to threaten international peace and security. Our position remains that we do not want to see the conflict continue to escalate, and we call on all parties to uphold international humanitarian law and to protect civilian life. We're taking defensive action to support our partners’ efforts to keep Australians safe. Deployed ADF assets will operate according to the right of collective self defence.
Further, late last night we issued five humanitarian visas to members of the Iranian women's soccer team. We've been preparing for this for some time. And indeed, the Minister for Home Affairs, Tony Burke, travelled to Queensland on Sunday, returned, and then travelled again last night. Australians have been moved by the plight of these brave women. They're safe here and they should feel at home here. The AFP have had plans in place with Commissioner Krissy Barrett directly involved. And once it was made clear that these women wanted assistance, the Australian Federal Police moved them to a safe location where they remain. The Minister for Home Affairs has spoken directly with the ASIO Director-General about this and we dealt with this as well through our appropriate security forums. We're willing to provide assistance to other women in the team, noting that this is a very delicate situation and it is up to them. But we say to them, if you want our help, help is here and we will provide that. I do want to take the opportunity, before I hand to the Deputy Prime Minister, I do want to thank the media for their restraint in reporting. This has been a very sensitive story. Obviously, we wanted to make it clear to the athletes that support was available to them. They then had to consider that and do it in a way that did not present any danger to them or to their families or friends back home in Iran. And we have received those. Five people have been granted the visas through the Direct Ministerial Intervention. We remain available as a nation to help others.
**RICHARD MARLES, DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER:** Well, thank you, Prime Minister. As the Prime Minister has said at the request of the UAE, we will be deploying an E-7 Wedgetail to the Gulf. This is one of the leading capabilities in the world in terms of airborne long range reconnaissance and command. And we are one of the leading nations in the use of the E-7. What this aircraft will be doing is very similar to the role that it has played in recent times from Poland in respect of the defence of Ukraine. There will be in the order of 85 personnel who will go with this airframe and that's the normal crew. The airframe will be leaving Australia today and the expectation is that it will be in the region in the middle of the week and operational by the end of the week. We have also received a request from the UAE to supply advanced medium range Air-to-Air missiles, AMRAAMs, and we will be supplying a number of those to the UAE as well. These are defensive weapons and I want to make that clear. And that is in terms of the requests that we are meeting today and the announcements that we are making today, all of this is in the defence of the Gulf countries. I want to be really clear about that. That is the basis upon which our personnel are being deployed and this equipment is being deployed. It is for the defence of the countries of the Gulf, in particular UAE, where there are significant numbers of Australians who reside. We are really pleased to be able to make this contribution and certainly in speaking with my counterpart in the UAE, they are also enormously grateful for the contribution that we are making.
**SENATOR PENNY WONG, FOREIGN MINISTER:** Thank you, Prime Minister. Well, as the Prime Minister said, our priority is and will always be to keep Australians safe at home and abroad. And we know this has been such a difficult time for many Australians in the Middle East. What we have seen is unprecedented. Iran has attacked 12 countries, and overnight, we have seen that these attacks are escalating. In recent days, Dubai airport has been under fire from Iranian missiles and drones. And since the 28th of February, more than 27,000 flights to and from the Middle East have been cancelled with an estimated 4.4 million airline seats removed from schedules. We have been working around the clock to support Australians who have been impacted by these cancellations. As of this morning, more than 2,600 Australians have returned on commercial flights. Further services are scheduled in the coming days. Yesterday, we saw the first flight from Qatar direct to Australia land safely, and we hope to see further flights in coming days.
I spoke to the Qatari Prime Minister last night, thanked him for their support for Australians and confirmed with him that they intend, subject to safety, to operate a limited schedule in coming days. Limited outbound commercial flights have also begun to operate from Ben Gurion International Airport in Israel. Commercial flights continue to operate in Lebanon. As I have said, commercial flights remain the fastest way to help Australians leave the Middle East at scale. I have also been advised by airports and by airlines that the overwhelming majority of Australians who were transiting the region and were stranded have now left the Middle East. There are many more Australians still in the Middle East, and we do understand these are difficult decisions for Australians and their families. But can I echo what the Prime Minister has now said? We encourage those who do wish to leave, do so now. Do so while commercial flights are still available, however limited.
I emphasise that DFAT has directed the departure of all dependents of officials posted to the United Arab Emirates. This is because the security situation is deteriorating and it is likely to get worse before it gets better. We've also been focused on trying to offer options to Australians where no flights were available. The Kuwait airport is closed, so we have arranged bus transportation to Riyadh. Two of those buses have arrived this morning, enabling Australians to continue their journey from Riyadh on commercial flights. Similarly, for Bahrain, DFAT officials are working with partners on arranging similar land transport also to Riyadh. The majority of Australians assisted by embassy officials to depart Qatar over the weekend have now left Riyadh on commercial flights.
Again, I emphasise for Australians in Iran, consular assistance is extremely limited. Australians in Iran should prioritise their safety and shelter in place during strikes. We urge them to consider all available options to depart if it is safe to do so. The 24-hour crisis centre remains activated. The crisis registration portal is open for Australians in Bahrain, Iran, Israel, Kuwait, Qatar, Lebanon, and the United Arab Emirates. We continue to advise do not travel to most destinations in the Middle East, and Australians requiring urgent consular assistance can contact the 24-hour consular emergency centre, 1300 555 135 within Australia, or +61 2 6261 3305 from overseas. Thank you.
**CHRIS BOWEN MP, MINISTER FOR CLIMATE CHANGE & ENERGY:** Thanks, Prime Minister. Just an update on Australia's petrol and diesel situation, which I know is of great interest to every Australian, and Australians are right to be wanting the latest information. I can say that our diesel and petrol supplies remain at this point secure. We have as much diesel in Australia today as we had before this crisis began, and the stock obligation which the companies are legally required to meet remains at 32 days. We are seeing a big increase in demand, particularly for diesel, and I understand why Australians are concerned, but my key message is that every single expected arrival of diesel supply in recent days and expected incoming days and weeks has arrived on schedule as expected, so there is no need for panic buying. Now, I do have a great deal of concern and empathy for those farmers in particular who, because of the situation with the supply chain in regional Australia are having difficulty getting diesel, but I do need to emphasise this is managing a huge spike in demand, not an impact on supply at this point.
Later today, Minister Julie Collins and I, together with Minister Tim Ayres, will convene a roundtable of the National Farmers Federation, the oil companies, the peak groups, Trucking Australia, to ensure that the flow of communication between those groups is as strong as it could be. We've been talking to them separately over the weekend. I've been in constant contact particularly with the refiners to make sure that everything that can be done is being done, but there'll be, no doubt, a constructive and sensible conversation convened by ministers later today to ensure that all those necessary communication flows and actions are taken. But the key message is, while there are challenges and uncertainties in all international supply chains at the moment, the preparations that the Government has put in place for the minimum stock obligation are working.
If it's necessary to access those minimum supplies, we will, but we're not there at this point. And the important thing to know is that there is no need, no need to be concerned at this point about the supply of diesel or petrol of Australia, because our stocks are as high as they were before this crisis began, but we do need to work to ensure that as much as possible is flowing to farmers, because what the refiners are dealing with is a massive increase in demand. They are meeting their contractual obligations to those who have ordered diesel in advance, but they are having trouble meeting extra orders that are coming on the spot market because they are so high. But we'll continue to work with them to ensure that as much as possible is being done.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, we're not part of the offensive operations, but in this defensive mode, we are now part of the campaign. You must have satisfied yourself about what exactly the strategic objective is here in your discussions with President Trump. How do you explain that to the Australian people?
**PRIME MINISTER:** That there are 24,000 Australians in the United Arab Emirates, that we have a close relationship with the UAE, that we've been asked for support for their defence in what is a country that is receiving an unprovoked attack that endangers their citizens, but also endangers Australian citizens.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, France is sending warships [INDISTINCT], suggesting some kind of proposal where there's international assistance to allow tankers to pass through that area. Is that something Australia would be considering taking part in or supporting?
**PRIME MINISTER:** We're considering the announcements that we've made today.
**JOURNALIST:** Donald Trump [INDISTINCT] after the fact about the women's soccer players and that they should have asylum. What did you tell him about that? And should that plane be allowed to leave with the [INDISTINCT]? Will you be satisfied that the remaining players, that everything's been done to give them a chance to stay?
**PRIME MINISTER:** President Trump rang me this morning just before 2:00 AM. We had a very positive discussion. He was concerned about the Iranian women in the soccer team and their welfare and their safety if they returned home. He conveyed that to me. I was able to convey to him the action that we'd undertaken over the previous 48 hours and that five of the team had asked for assistance and had received it and were safely located. I informed him about Minister Burke and his hands-on work in this area as well. Assistance remains available for the other members of the team, but it of course is a decision for them. If they make a decision to ask for support, they will receive it.
**JOURNALIST:** Given Iran's actions in Australia in the past, are you concerned that this move will cause any kind of reprisal attacks here in Australia from Iran? 
**PRIME MINISTER:** Iran is a state that has engaged in terrorism here before, and is engaged in sponsoring terrorism around the world. One of the objectives here, along with Iran not obtaining a nuclear weapon, is stopping Iran being a source of violence and terrorism around the world. And we are acting in support of our friends in the Gulf States. There's been no attack from the UAE against Iran and yet Dubai airport, civilian and tourist areas have been targeted by a regime, consistent with the way that they have behaved for the last 37 years. 
**JOURNALIST:** What operational command of the Australian – the plane and the missiles – be under? Will we have autonomy over the actions of those assets or does it come under some broader regional command? 
**DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER:** Well, we will have command over the E7 and its crew. Obviously, the AMRAAMs we will be supplying to the UAE on the basis of their request. But again, I want to emphasise in relation to the AMRAAMs, they are a purely defensive weapon and so we're confident about their use. 
**JOURNALIST:** What would you say to people here who maybe wonder why the Emirates, who have more money than anyone, need to prevail on a country so far away with a limited defence budget to help them out? [INDISTINCT] with their own defences, given the volatility over there?
**DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER:** We are supporting the UAE in the defence of its country and the Prime Minister has articulated that very eloquently. And reiterate that one of the largest expat populations that we have of Australians anywhere in the world is in the UAE, so we've got a significant national interest there. In terms of the capability and specifically the E7, we are one of the leading nations in the use of the E7 and it is one of the most high tech airborne command and reconnaissance platforms that exists in the world today. We have been asked to provide it in other scenarios and I mentioned that in respect of Ukraine and where we operated from Poland. It's not a surprise to me that there's been this request, and this is a significant contribution that we can make and we're proud to make it.
**JOURNALIST:** You said that the plane and its crew are initially going to be deployed for four weeks. Does that reflect that you agree with the assessment of some that this will go on for weeks, not months? And did you discuss any military deployments or anything with President Trump or was it only about the Iranian soccer players, that conversation?
**PRIME MINISTER:** I had a range of discussions, a fairly lengthy discussion with President Trump. As always, I refer to my previous other responses to questions such as that about private conversations. It was a warm conversation between myself and President Trump, primarily about the Iranian soccer team, but obviously we also discussed world events.
**JOURNALIST:** And the four week deployment?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, that's just common sense. You know, we're not going to send an E7 across there for four days. We're sending it across there, if it's sooner, that would be good. But initially in terms of planning, it's just common sense.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, what do you say to Australians who are nervous or apprehensive about Australian involvement in the region, given how lengthy these conflicts have been in the past? What do you say to those who are unsure about Australian assets going to that region?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, that our involvement is purely defensive and it's in defence of Australians who are in the region, as well as in defence of our friends in the United Arab Emirates who are good friends of Australia and Australians. We have a free trade agreement with them that's opened up the markets of the Middle East. MBZ is someone I have enormous respect for as the leader of the UAE. We have a good friendship with that nation and Australia has always been -
**JOURNALIST:** But what do you see as the end game of Iran, Prime Minister? That's the important question. What's the strategic objective? What are we doing here?
**PRIME MINISTER:** What we're about here, we are not protagonists. What we are doing is providing for defence of the UAE and of Australian citizens.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, President Trump overnight has said that this war is, ‘pretty much complete’. In your conversation with President Trump, did you seek any assurances that war was drawing to a close and how confident are you in the Presidents assessment?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Refer to previous answers.
**JOURNALIST:**[INDISTINCT]
**PRIME MINISTER:** No, it's not. And it's not unusual to get the same answer if you ask the same question, which is one of the ways that I'm able to develop positive relations with world leaders is because when I get off the phone, I don't hold a press conference and talk about all of the detail. It was a very positive conversation. President Trump is very optimistic. Of course, his public statement, his public statements are out there for all to see.
**JOURNALIST:** Earlier last week, the message from Australia was de-escalation was necessary. Did you communicate that to the President? Is that the government's position still?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Refer to the last answer.
**JOURNALIST:** Beyond those two requests, was there any other requests made by the Gulf nations? There's talk that they have been asking allied nations to talk to Donald Trump to persuade him to an off ramp. What other requests did the Gulf nations make?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, the conversation I had with MBZ was just a positive one. We received a written request from the UAE and we've responded to that and we've responded to it
**JOURNALIST:**[INDISTINCT]
**PRIME MINISTER:** There were a range of requests.
**JOURNALIST:** For Minister Bowen, you said there's been a significant increase in demand for diesel. Can you just talk us a little bit more through that in terms of is there a percentage? What sort of increase are we seeing? And if this war does go on for longer than some more weeks, how soon secure will our 32 day reserve remain?
**MINISTER BOWEN:** Well, look, we're just seeing a lot of people wanting extra diesel, particularly in regional Australia, and I do understand that. But we do need to have this conversation based on the facts. And the fact of the matter is we have enough diesel in Australia for our needs for the foreseeable future, and there is absolutely no need for panic. And it's important that government and industry are working together to ensure that within that constraint that we're seeing a massive spike in demand. And we're seeing it particularly, you know, seeing it in service stations in regional Australia in particular, and, you know, suppliers to farmers where they are under strain. And that's why they're ordering extra from the refiners. And the refiners are meeting their contractual obligations to people who ordered it in advance and have a contract. They're not able to meet every extra order at the moment because the orders are so high. Again, Minister Collins and I, we'll be talking those issues through with the industry and with the National Farmers Federation today in a very constructive conversation. In relation to, you know, if the issue in the Middle East continue, of course, of course we'll continue to monitor the situation carefully. We have powers under the minimum stock obligation which I won't hesitate to use if necessary if it helps the situation, and there are a range of other acts which are there in case of an emergency. We are not there yet. I note that last night G7 Ministers met and agreed it was not the right time for an international release of oil. And that reflects our understanding of the situation as well.
**PRIME MINISTER:** I'll take just a couple more and then we'll bring it home. Here and then SBS can have the last word.
**JOURNALIST:** The conflict is escalating and Australia's involvement is escalating. Was it a mistake to back the intervention so quickly? And is there a limit to the support that Australia is prepared to offer in the Middle East?
**PRIME MINISTER:** No. And the support we're offering, I've announced.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, we talked about fuel security. What's the situation with urea? We know half of that supplies come through the Gulf. Can Australians expect their prices of food to go up? Particularly because even if this war finishes as quickly as President Trump says, the Strait of Hormuz is not going to be settling for some time.
**MINISTER BOWEN:** Again, in relation to technical grade urea, our government initiated a stockpile. We have an office, there wasn't one before that. We have five weeks in the stockpile, that adds to twelve weeks of supply that the private sector holds. So, that's technical grade urea which supports AdBlue which is so vital for trucking. Fertiliser is a separate question and urea for fertiliser is a separate question. Again, we are talking to the National Farmers Federation. At this point supplies remain good, but of course we'll continue to remain agile and work with the industry as necessary through Minister Collins and myself. Thank you.
**PRIME MINISTER:** Can I just say before we go that the Superannuation Legislation will pass the Senate this week. That's a good thing. This is good reform that will assist low income earners but also make the superannuation system more progressive. And I thank a majority of the Senate for agreeing to what is a very sensible reform. Thank you.
