Iran’s reprisal attacks continue to escalate, already at a scale and depth we have not seen before; 12 countries in the region are continuing to be targeted.
The United Arab Emirates (UAE) alone has been forced to shoot down over 1,500 rockets and drones. This growing wave of dangerous and destabilising attacks from Iran puts civilian lives at risk, including Australian lives. 
In responding to requests, Australia will deploy an E-7A Wedgetail to the Gulf to help protect and defend Australians and other civilians. 
Australians will remember the E-7A Wedgetail was recently deployed to Europe as part of Australia’s assistance to Ukraine.
As it did there, the E-7A Wedgetail will provide long range reconnaissance capability which will help secure the airspace above the Gulf.
The E-7A Wedgetail and supporting Australian Defence Force (ADF) personnel will be deployed for an initial four weeks in support of the collective self-defence of Gulf nations.
Additionally, in response to a request, the Albanese Government intends to provide Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAMs) to the UAE.
The Albanese Government has been clear that we are not taking offensive action against Iran and we have been clear that we are not deploying Australian troops on the ground in Iran.
The first priority of the Albanese Government is, and always will be, to keep Australians safe.
There are around 115,000 Australians in the Middle East – around 24,000 in the UAE.
Helping Australians means also helping the UAE and other Gulf nations to defend themselves. 
It is important to recognise the assistance and support the Gulf is providing to thousands of Australians at this time.
We continue to work on contingencies – to keep Australians safe and to help travellers leave the Middle East. 
We have already sent DFAT personnel to the region as part of Crisis Response Teams. They are on the ground providing consular support. 
More than 2,600 Australians have now returned home but significant challenges remain and further work is underway to support those still seeking to leave. 
Australia supported action aimed at preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon and preventing Iran from continuing to threaten international peace and security. 
Our position remains that we do not want to see the conflict continue to escalate. 
We call on all parties to uphold international humanitarian law and to protect civilian life. 
We are taking defensive action to support our partners’ efforts to keep Australians safe. 
As always, deployed ADF assets will operate according to Australian law, Australian policy, and Australian directives.
The Government will notify the United Nations Security Council of relevant actions taken under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter.
