5 March 2026
Partnering with industry to deliver better outcomes for women in the aviation workforce.
Consultation has opened on a key initiative under the Australian Government's [Aviation White Paper: Toward 2050](https://www.infrastructure.gov.au/department/media/publications/aviation-white-paper-towards-2050), with feedback being sought on a new Gender Equity Charter.
The White Paper, released in August 2024, identified that around two-thirds of people employed in the aviation sector in Australia are men, with an even higher gender imbalance in many aviation technical and trade roles (with women representing 4% of these roles).
The industry also experiences a considerable gender pay gap of 37.2% in average total remuneration.
Feedback on the draft Charter will ensure it is fit-for-purpose and supports broad uptake of, and engagement with, the Charter by the sector. This will help build inclusive, dynamic workplaces and address key workforce shortages across the Australian aviation industry.
The draft Gender Equity Charter:
  * Asks signatories to report annually on their progress implementing positive workplace culture change, in meeting overall and specific targets for the employment of women, and in reducing the differences in salary and employment conditions between women and men.
  * Enables organisations to implement policies and reporting appropriate to the size and capability of each signatory.
  * Notes that Charter membership may be a consideration in awarding some government aviation grants.


Feedback is being sought from the aviation sector, unions and other interested parties. Consultation closes 31 March 2026 at 05.00pm (AEDT).
To make a submission, and to view the Charter and supporting Consultation Paper, visit the [Have your say page](https://www.infrastructure.gov.au/have-your-say/gender-equity-charter-australian-aviation).
