Tuesday, 03 March 2026
[ASX]( [gender diversity](
* * *
Despite some levelling off in the appointment rate over the past year, the overall number of female directors on the ASX 200 and 300 continues to track close to 40 percent. The 40% milestone has been reached on the ASX 100 and higher.
As of 31 January 2026, the number of women directors on the ASX 300 is 37.6% and 38% on the ASX 200. The ASX 20 remains ahead of the broader market at 43.8% which is marginally stronger than last quarter.
Although overall representation of women directors has improved significantly over the past decade, the proportion of women in Chair and other senior board roles remains lower across the market.
Currently there are 48 female Chairs across the ASX 300, and there are no female Chairs on the ASX 20.
**ASX group** |  **Female Directorships (Jan 2026)**  
---|---  
ASX 300  
|  37.6%  
ASX 200  
|  38.0%  
ASX 100  
|  40.0%  
ASX 50  
|  41.6%  
ASX 20 |  43.8%  
AICD Managing Director and CEO Mark Rigotti said boards have a pivotal role to play to maintain the momentum towards gender parity.
“Through CEO and board succession planning, skills-based appointments and a continued commitment to diversity as a driver of governance quality, organisations can ensure that progress on gender diversity continues to build.”
Chair of the 30%+ Club Marina Go reiterated that it was important to maintain a strong focus on gender parity.
“As we approach International Women’s Day for 2026, it’s a good reminder that after a decade of consistent growth we must continue to be vigilant.
“We need to maintain our efforts to build a strong and diverse pipeline of board-ready women to increase the level of female director appointments and particularly the number of women Chairs.”
The AICD will continue to foster this important work through our mentoring and scholarships programs.
**Media contact: Jane Braslin 0439 167 567**
[ Download the media release ](
[ View the report ](
[ASX]( [gender diversity](
[ article 27 Feb 2026 AICD aims to build care governance clarity  ](
[ article 27 Feb 2026 Santos successfully defends ACCR greenwashing allegations  ](
[ article 27 Feb 2026 It’s tariff time, again. And another hot inflation reading ](
[ article 20 Feb 2026 #IWD2026 Boardroom trailblazers: Women leading change ](
[ article 20 Feb 2026 Jobs and wages: An update on the state of the Australian labour market ](
This is 
[ Access this content ](
**Already a member?**
Login to view this content
[ Log In](
You have reached your limit for guest contents. The content you are trying to access is exclusive for AICD members. Please become a member for unlimited access.
[ Access this content](
Already a member?
[ Log In](
