View the latest media statements from the WA Government.
[Filter by](
Keyword search
Minister
Minister
Region
Region
Portfolio
Portfolio
Published date
From date
To date
March 2026
Mo | Tu | We | Th | Fr | Sa | Su  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  |  | 1  
2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8  
9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15  
16 | 17 | 18 | 19 | 20 | 21 | 22  
23 | 24 | 25 | 26 | 27 | 28 | 29  
30 | 31 |  |  |  |  |   
Administration
Cook Labor Government
[Subscribe for email updates](
  1. ## [Western Australia welcomes the Qantas Australian Tourism Awards]( "Western Australia welcomes the Qantas Australian Tourism Awards")
Western Australia will welcome Australia's top tourism representatives this week for the 41st Qantas Australian Tourism Awards, celebrating excellence across the nation's tourism sector.
Published: 5 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Reece Whitby
Portfolio: Tourism - Cook Labor Government
  2. ## [New concert series arrives at METRONET stations]( "New concert series arrives at METRONET stations")
Live music will take over four METRONET train stations this month as part of a free community concert series.
Published: 5 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Rita Saffioti
Portfolio: Transport - Cook Labor Government
  3. ## [$94 million Roebourne District High School redevelopment complete]( "$94 million Roebourne District High School redevelopment complete")
Roebourne District High School's multimillion-dollar redevelopment has been completed ahead of schedule, enabling students to begin the new school year in the upgraded facilities.
Published: 5 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Roger Cook, Hon. Sabine Winton and Hon. Amber-Jade Sanderson
Portfolio: Premier, Education and Pilbara - Cook Labor Government
  4. ## [Grains genetic research alliance celebrates a decade of success]( "Grains genetic research alliance celebrates a decade of success")
The Western Crop Genetics Alliance is celebrating its tenth anniversary, with the Cook Government committing more than $3 million for another decade of collaboration with Murdoch University to continue driving new frontiers in genetics research.
Published: 5 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Jackie Jarvis
Portfolio: Agriculture and Food - Cook Labor Government
  5. ## [Paid graduate programs now open for new nurses and midwives ]( "Paid graduate programs now open for new nurses and midwives ")
Applications are now open for newly qualified enrolled nurses, registered nurses, and midwives to apply for graduate programs through GradConnect.
Published: 5 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Meredith Hammat
Portfolio: Health - Cook Labor Government
  6. ## [Taste Great Southern 2026 serving up four days of local flavours]( "Taste Great Southern 2026 serving up four days of local flavours")
The Great Southern region is set to welcome a wave of visitors as Taste Great Southern 2026 begins, serving up four days of indulgent food, wine and cultural experiences.
Published: 5 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Reece Whitby and Hon. Stephen Dawson
Portfolio: Tourism, Great Southern and Regional Development - Cook Labor Government
  7. ## [Pilbara land release to help Western Australians into a home]( "Pilbara land release to help Western Australians into a home")
The Cook Government has sold an additional 33 residential lots in Madigan Estate in Karratha to Perdaman to accommodate its permanent workforce and support the growth of the $6.5 billion Karratha Urea Project. 
Published: 5 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Roger Cook, Hon. John Carey and Hon. Amber-Jade Sanderson
Portfolio: Premier, Housing and Works and Pilbara - Cook Labor Government
  8. ## [Family law specialist appointed as a Family Court magistrate]( "Family law specialist appointed as a Family Court magistrate")
Andrzej Meysner has been promoted to the position of magistrate of the Magistrates Court of Western Australia
Published: 4 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Dr Tony Buti
Portfolio: Attorney General - Cook Labor Government
  9. ## [WA's economic growth continues to outpace the nation]( "WA's economic growth continues to outpace the nation")
Western Australia's domestic economy grew by 3.3 per cent in 2025, continuing to outpace national growth, according to Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) national accounts data released today.
Published: 4 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Rita Saffioti
Portfolio: Treasurer - Cook Labor Government
  10. ## [Agriculture Youth Safety Award winners our future leaders]( "Agriculture Youth Safety Award winners our future leaders")
Agricultural students from across the State have been recognised as the best work health and safety students in their year at the Agriculture Youth Safety Awards.
Published: 4 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Simone McGurk
Portfolio: Industrial Relations - Cook Labor Government
  11. ## [Expanded desalination plant to help secure Pilbara's water supply]( "Expanded desalination plant to help secure Pilbara's water supply")
Western Australians living in the West Pilbara will benefit from long-term water security thanks to the Cook Government's $606 million investment which will double the $1.1 billion Dampier Seawater Desalination Plant's (DSDP) capacity.
Published: 4 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Roger Cook, Hon. Don Punch and Hon. Amber-Jade Sanderson
Portfolio: Premier, Water and Pilbara - Cook Labor Government
  12. ## [Circus brings colour and creativity to Kimberley communities]( "Circus brings colour and creativity to Kimberley communities")
Theatre Kimberley will continue to deliver its popular circus-based activities to children and young people in the region, thanks to support from the Cook Government. 
Published: 4 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Sabine Winton
Portfolio: Preventative Health - Cook Labor Government
  13. ## [First residential lots released at Princess Margaret Hospital site]( "First residential lots released at Princess Margaret Hospital site")
Offers are now invited from developers for two prime lots in 1909 Subi East, the former Princess Margaret Hospital site.
Published: 4 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. John Carey
Portfolio: Planning and Lands - Cook Labor Government
  14. ## [New seasonal flight connecting Perth and Christchurch]( "New seasonal flight connecting Perth and Christchurch")
Western Australia is strengthening its international aviation links with the launch of a new seasonal non-stop Jetstar service connecting Christchurch and Perth.
Published: 4 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Roger Cook and Hon. Reece Whitby
Portfolio: Premier and Tourism - Cook Labor Government
  15. ## [Regional communities to share benefits of WA's energy transition]( "Regional communities to share benefits of WA's energy transition")
Regional communities will share in the benefits of Western Australia's energy transition thanks to the State Government's newly released community benefits guideline for clean energy projects.
Published: 4 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Amber-Jade Sanderson
Portfolio: Energy and Decarbonisation - Cook Labor Government
  16. ## [WA new home approvals reach highest level in four years]( "WA new home approvals reach highest level in four years")
Building approvals in Western Australia rose by nearly 13.2 per cent to 24,544 dwellings over the year to January, reaching the highest level in four years. 
Published: 3 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Rita Saffioti and Hon. John Carey
Portfolio: Treasurer and Housing and Works - Cook Labor Government
  17. ## [Joint media statement - Rail freight upgrades support WA's bumper grain harvest]( "Joint media statement - Rail freight upgrades support WA's bumper grain harvest")
Completed rail freight upgrades at Moora and Cranbrook CBH Group grain receival sites are supporting the movement of Western Australia's biggest ever grain harvest, helping get more grain to port faster and into export markets sooner.
Published: 3 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Jessica Stojkovski, Hon. Jackie Jarvis and Hon. Sabine Winton
Portfolio: Minister Assisting the Minister for Transport, Agriculture and Food and Wheatbelt - Cook Labor Government
  18. ## [Creativity takes centre stage with new funding for WA artists]( "Creativity takes centre stage with new funding for WA artists")
A vibrant mix of performances, arts projects, and cultural initiatives will be delivered across Western Australia, backed in by new funding from the Cook Government.
Published: 3 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Simone McGurk
Portfolio: Creative Industries - Cook Labor Government
  19. ## [Construction commences at Osborne Park Hospital]( "Construction commences at Osborne Park Hospital")
Construction has officially started today on the major expansion of Osborne Park Hospital - a key part of the $1.8 billion New Women and Babies Hospital Project. 
Published: 3 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Roger Cook, Hon. John Carey and Hon. Meredith Hammat
Portfolio: Premier, Health Infrastructure and Health - Cook Labor Government
  20. ## [Roundtables with WA leaders to underpin new workforce strategy]( "Roundtables with WA leaders to underpin new workforce strategy")
The Cook Government will develop a comprehensive workforce strategy to ensure Western Australia has the people and skills needed to diversify the State's nation-leading economy.
Published: 1 Mar 2026
Minister: Hon. Amber-Jade Sanderson
Portfolio: Skills and TAFE - Cook Labor Government


  * ...


