Media Releases 
# APRA releases superannuation statistics for March 2026
Thursday 28 May 2026
[Print](https://www.apra.gov.au/news-and-publications/apra-releases-superannuation-statistics-for-march-2026)
The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) has released its _Quarterly Superannuation Performance_ publication report for the March 2026 quarter.
Key statistics for the superannuation industry as at 31 March 2026:
- | March 2025 | March 2026 | Change  
---|---|---|---  
Total superannuation assets | $4,111.4 billion | $4,437.9 billion | +7.9%  
Total APRA-regulated assets | $2,890.7 billion | $3,141.1 billion | +8.7%  
Total self-managed super fund assets | $988.0 billion | $1,057.6 billion | +7.0%  
  
Exempt public sector superannuation schemes assets | $173.4 billion | $178.4 billion | +2.9%  
  
Balance of life office statutory fund assets | $59.3 billion | $60.8 billion | +2.5%  
  
Total superannuation assets decreased by -1.0 per cent over the quarter to $4.4 trillion as at March 2026, of which $3.1 trillion was in APRA-regulated funds. Total contributions increased by 11.3 per cent to $226.1 billion in the year ending in March 2026. Employer contributions increased by 8.4 per cent over the year to $159.8 billion. Member contributions increased by 19.1 per cent over the year to $66.3 billion.
Benefit payments increased by 12.3 per cent to $143.5 billion in the year ending in March 2026. This increase was the result of lump sum payments rising by 13.6 per cent to $79.7 billion and pension payments increasing by 10.7 per cent to $63.8 billion.
Key statistics for entities with more than six members for the year to March 2026:
- | March 2025 | March 2026 | Change  
---|---|---|---  
Total contributions | $203.0 billion | $226.1 billion | +11.3%  
Total benefit payments | $127.8 billion | $143.5 billion | +12.3%  
Net contribution flows* | $68.0 billion | $74.5 billion | +9.6%  
_*Net contribution flows comprise of contributions plus net benefit transfers, less benefit payments_
Copies of the publication are available on APRA’s website at: [Quarterly superannuation statistics](https://www.apra.gov.au/quarterly-superannuation-statistics "Quarterly superannuation statistics")
> ### For more information
> Email 
> Manager, External Data Reporting  
> Australian Prudential Regulation Authority  
> GPO Box 9836, Sydney NSW 2001
> ### Looking for discontinued publications?
#### Subscribe for updates
To receive media releases, publications, speeches and other industry-related information by email 
[Subscribe](https://www.apra.gov.au/newsletter-signup)
