**ANTHONY ALBANESE, PRIME MINISTER OF AUSTRALIA:** Prime Minister and your delegation, you are very welcome in Australia. Our two nations share values. We share common interests as well. One of the things that we've been discussing over a period of time is as middle powers, how we can cooperate across the whole sphere of economic, defence, social, environmental relationships as well. We're both impacted by climate change, and one of the practical ways that we assist each other is your firefighters helping us and our firefighters helping you. Unfortunately, those seasons are becoming longer, which means the challenge is something that we need to deal with, not just in the short term, but the long term as well. We have also shared our experience, how we deal with the changing world, how that evolves around defence and security issues, but also practical issues of the impact of new technology. Our ban on social media for under 16s has been something that we regard as world leading, been quite successful up to this point. And that's just one element of how we deal with ensuring that the positives which new technology brings; productivity benefits. We've never been more interconnected, distance has never been less important than it is today. But at the same time, we need to make sure that we secure advantages in employment, in our interaction, the way that society functions as well in terms of social cohesion. So, we have much to learn off each other, much to gain from cooperation with each other, and it's been a pleasure to get to know yourself and Diana over a relatively short period of time, but to build that relationship between our two nations, and your visit here, following on from the warm welcome I received at the G7, just seems like a few weeks ago, held a little while ago, was also something that I appreciated, but Australia appreciated it as well. You are welcome.
**MARK CARNEY, PRIME MINISTER OF CANADA:** Thank you very much, Prime Minister. And let me start with that G7, it was greatly enhanced by your presence and some of the discussions that we'll have today around this table, and more broadly, some of the agreements that were, our governments are signing reflect the progress we started there. Secondly, you and I met first time properly, we've met a few times virtually, but first time properly back in April. And yes, a natural relationship. And I think a natural relationship partly because of your personality, but also because of our two countries and so much that we share. We navigate to the North Star, you to the Southern Cross, but with the same orientation, the same underlying values, and that gets expressed across a range of issues that are both great challenges but tremendous opportunities. You touched on some defence cooperation necessitated by a more divided and dangerous world, with trusted allies. The shift in technological change that we're seeing across artificial intelligence brings risk to our sovereignty if we don't control the stack across all aspects of AI brings great possibility to our societies in terms of the application, and rightly, as you've emphasised, and this is, I think, bred in the bone of Australia, and certainly your government, is the importance of inclusiveness and ensuring that AI works for all, and one of our shared challenges is to make sure that that happens as quickly as possible. So, we're looking forward to learning from you, cooperating in those areas, cooperating in other strategic areas, such as critical minerals and financial services, where we are quiet powerhouses in and of ourselves. And if I may say that more volatile global environment, which is likely to persist for some time, the strength of our financial systems, the options, the strength of national balance sheets, the strength of our large pension funds, the supers, and the supers afford us tremendous opportunities in that world, is crucial. So, thank you. Thank you for the honour of today, but also the substance.
**[Remarks in French]**
And I'll finish just to observe the following, which is your Co-Presidency of COP31 this year, you talked about it, very important that leadership, and also the prospect, I know it's early days, but you tend to win elections, Prime Minister. It's early days for the Security Council position 29-30, and there's a real opportunity through what we would call coalitions and variables, we all introduce some common values, building that out on specific issues, to help come behind your efforts and make not just this relationship, but the world a better place, more just. So, thank you very much. 
**PRIME MINISTER OF AUSTRALIA:** Thanks, Prime Minister.
