

Published: 
     Thursday 23 April 2026 at 12:17 pm
Victoria is one of the most fire-prone areas in the world, with disasters becoming more frequent and severe.
That’s why the Allan Labor Government keep backing our emergency services and firefighters with the stations and equipment they need.
**Backing the CFA**
The _Victorian Budget 2026/27_ will deliver an expansion to CFA’s rolling fleet replacement program.
An additional $100 million for new CFA tankers and pumpers to ensure our firefighting fleet can protect Victorians. 
The Budget also includes $26.2 million for CFA station builds, planning, land acquisition and upgrades at:
  * Lakes Entrance
  * Barongarook West
  * Charlton
  * Nar Nar Goon
  * Beveridge
  * Dereel
  * Mirboo North
  * Kingston
  * Woodvale
  * Yarrambat.


Our volunteers deserve modern, safe facilities that reflect the vital role they play in keeping Victorians safe.
To back their incredible contribution – we will also deliver $22.4 million for more wellbeing support, training and new protective gear.
**Supporting our forest firefighters**
Our forest firefighters put themselves into dangerous situations to stop fire spreading.
We’re backing their work with a $217 million investment to:
  * purchase 17 new assets including heavy tankers, dozers and graders
  * deliver upgrades to the vehicle fleet
  * secure the critical aviation fire fleet
  * conduct more planned burns and fuel management.


Only Labor has new solutions to make life easier, safer and more affordable.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Emergency Services Vicki Ward**
_“Our volunteer and forest firefighters are on the frontline, protecting us when we need it most. We’ll keep delivering the equipment and facilities they need to keep Victorians safe.”_
_“With this investment, our emergency services volunteers can keep doing this vital work for years to come.”_
**Quote attributable to Minister for Environment Enver Erdogan**
_“Whether it’s crews in the air or on the ground, we’re making sure our hardworking fire services are ready for whatever gets thrown at them during fire season.”_
[ 260423 - Backing Volunteer and Forest Firefighters to Keep Victorians Safe.pdf PDF 253.27 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-04/260423-Backing-Volunteer-and-Forest-Firefighters-to-Keep-Victorians-Safe.pdf)
