

Published: 
     Thursday 23 April 2026 at 11:00 am
Labor is delivering serious consequences for youth violence with Adult Time for Violent Crime.
But the causes of violence are complex – we also need to invest in prevention to stop crime before it starts.
That’s why the Allan Labor Government is providing a massive boost to the new Violence Reduction Unit.
**$30 million for the Violence Reduction Unit**
The _Victorian Budget 2026/27_ invests $30 million in the Violence Reduction Unit (VRU).
A Violence Reduction Unit in Scotland and London was proven to reduce violent crime.
Our funding boost is a vote of confidence in Victoria’s VRU, giving it a permanent home in our justice system.
Funding will go directly towards new programs that identify and disrupt youth crime patterns early.
These programs must involve the whole community, including young people – not just government.
One announced today is a $3.7 million initiative based on a successful immersive program in New York City.
The community-based gang violence intervention program was touted by the Brooklyn District Attorney as helping to deliver _“the safest year in Brooklyn’s history.”_
**More support for mentoring**
The Budget invests an additional $9.5 million to boost Blue Light Victoria’s successful youth mentoring program.
Blue Light Victoria is a long-term community partner of Victoria Police providing one-on-one mentoring for children in Bendigo, Latrobe, Brimbank and Melton.
This investment will expand their evidence-backed mentoring program to more areas across the state.
Their programs address the issues of school disengagement, isolation and limited access to positive role models.
**More programs to come**
Further prevention programs across Government – including those funded through the $30 million investment in the VRU – will be announced in the Budget and over the coming months.
The Liberals opposed the Violence Reduction Unit and they’ll cut it.
Only Labor has new solutions to make life easier, safer and more affordable.
**Quotes attributable to Attorney-General and Minister for Violence Reduction Sonya Kilkenny**
_“ We’re reducing violent youth crime with serious consequences and early interventions.”_
_“ The Liberals will cut the Violence Reduction Unit – only Labor has a plan to stop crime before it starts.”_
**Quote attributable to Minister for Police Anthony Carbines**
_“These programs work hand-in-hand with police to disrupt and dismantle youth crime and keep kids on track.”_
[ 260423 - The Violence Reduction Unit Is Here To Stay.pdf PDF 238.16 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-04/260423-The-Violence-Reduction-Unit-Is-Here-To-Stay.pdf)
Attorney General
