

Published: 
     Tuesday 21 April 2026 at 4:15 pm
The Allan Labor Government is backing Victoria Police to keep Victorians safe.
Minister for Police Anthony Carbines today open the new 24/7 Narre Warren Police Station.
The Narre Warren Police Station at 1–7 Coventry Road has reopened after extensive upgrades including: 
  * a redesigned internal layout 
  * a new public foyer, reception counter and public meeting rooms 
  * upgraded operational areas including the watchhouse, property storeroom and equipment issue office 
  * new interview rooms and holding cells.


These upgrades make it safer and easier for police to do their job and provide a more welcoming local station.
The upgrade is part of a $78 million Labor Government investment which also includes the new Clyde North Police Station to support Melbourne’s growing south‑east.
Labor continues to back Victoria Police with the powers and resources they need to keep communities safe.
This includes extending Operation Pulse to the end of 2026 with police and PSOs patrolling shopping centres like Westfield Fountain Gate to help deter crime and keep shoppers safe.
We’re also further boosting police resources, with $44 million in this year’s Budget to deliver 50 additional PSOs.
Only Labor has new solutions to make life easier, safer and more affordable.
**Quote attributable to Minister for Police Anthony Carbines**
_“We’re providing state-of-the-art police stations across the state – because we’ll always back Victoria Police with what they need to keep Victorians safe.”_
**Quote attributable to Member for Narre Warren North Belinda Wilson**
_“With upgraded facilities and advanced technology, this station strengthens police operations across Narre Warren.”(opens in a new window)_
**Quote attributable to Member for Narre Warren South Gary Maas**
_“A growing community like Narre Warren deserves a modern and fit‑for‑purpose police station – this upgrade delivers exactly that.”_
**Quote attributable to Member for South-Eastern Metropolitan Region Lee Tarlamis**
_“Our police deserve the best facilities, and this upgrade delivers a modern, state‑of‑the‑art police station for Narre Warren police and the wider community.”_
[ 260421 - Upgraded Police Station For Narre Warren.pdf PDF 253.37 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-04/260421-Upgraded-Police-Station-For-Narre-Warren.pdf)
Police
