Today, the European Commission has adopted [guidance to the EU transport and tourism sector](https://transport.ec.europa.eu/document/download/b56be573-f60a-4790-af8d-47c3bb5283b0_en?filename=Middle_East_crisis_guidance.pdf) amid ongoing fuel supply disruptions and the closure of certain air and shipping routes linked to the Middle East crisis. The guidance focuses on aviation, addressing in particular the **impacts of potential jet fuel scarcity should the conflict continue**. The **European Union Aviation Safety Agency** (EASA) has also issued a [Safety Information Bulletin](https://www.easa.europa.eu/en/newsroom-and-events/news/easa-issues-sib-safe-usage-jet-aviation-fuel-europe) to inform aviation and fuel supply stakeholders about the safe usage of Jet A aviation fuel in Europe.
Specifically, the **guidance clarifies existing EU rules** on fuel uplift obligations, fuel surcharges, airport slots, public service obligations, and air passenger rights.
  * Passengers affected by cancellations **continue to benefit from air passenger rights**. They are entitled to reimbursement, re-routing, or return, assistance at the airport and compensation for last-minute cancellations. Airlines may only be exempt from paying financial compensation if they can prove that the cancellation was caused by extraordinary circumstances, such as a local fuel shortage. The Commission considers that high fuel prices should not be considered as constituting extraordinary circumstance.
  * To **ensure transparent pricing of air fares** , the [Air Services Regulation](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2008/1008/oj/eng) requires airlines to display final ticket prices upfront. This is to ensure that passengers are not faced with unexpected costs. Therefore, charging additional fees retroactively such as fuel surcharges is not allowed. For holiday packages, the [Package Travel Directive](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32015L2302) may allow organisers to increase the price retroactively, if stated in the contract and only under specific circumstances.
  * To **help avoid the closure of certain routes** , airlines can be exempted from the 90% fuel uplift rule under the [ReFuelEU Aviation](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32023R2405). This applies where safety rules require carrying extra fuel from the departure airport, which could otherwise prevent the airline from undertaking its next flight if fuel is insufficiently available at the destination EU airport. **On airport slots** , airlines may be exempt from the usual landing and take-off slot obligations due to fuel supply issues at airports. When applying the ‘justified non-use of slots’ under the [Slot Regulation](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A31993R0095), airlines are not penalised for not using their allocated slots.
  * The Commission also encourages Member States **to make full use of the clauses in their contracts when airlines operating Public Service Obligation** (PSO) routes face fuel shortages or exceptionally high fuel prices that make operations unfeasible at the regulated ticket price.


The Commission has also adopted a [**temporary State aid framework**](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_894) to support other modes, road, rail, inland waterways and maritime transport, affected in particular by high diesel costs. This will enable Member States to provide financial support to industries impacted by the crisis. The Commission will continue monitoring closely potential effects on all transport modes, including through the activation of the National Transport Contact Points set up under the Transport Contingency Plan.
## For more information
[AccelerateEU communication](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_629)
General publications8 May 2026
[ Guidance clarifying certain EU rules applicable to passengers and tourism as well as transport operators, including in light of the current reduced supply of jet fuel from the Middle East ](https://transport.ec.europa.eu/document/download/b56be573-f60a-4790-af8d-47c3bb5283b0_en?filename=Middle_East_crisis_guidance.pdf)
## Details 

Publication date
    
8 May 2026 

Author
    [Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport](https://commission.europa.eu/about/departments-and-executive-agencies/mobility-and-transport_en)
Share this page 
