

Published: 
     Friday 29 May 2026 at 2:15 pm
Labor is making it easier for farmers to plant trees on their farms.
Minister Settle announced the rollout of the Trees on Farms Utilisation Program and the latest recipients of the Incubator Program.
We’re now rolling out the Trees on Farms Utilisation Program across the state – a $4.5 million initiative that will help farm forestry plantation owners make the most of their existing plantations.
Eligible landowners can access a free professional assessment of their plantations, providing tailored insights into timber quality, market opportunities and next steps – all with no cost or obligation.
If an assessment identifies a commercial opportunity, landowners may be eligible for later-stage funding for management activities such as thinning to improve timber quality and market access.
To be eligible, plantings must be between 3 and 30 hectares, planted before 2021 specifically for wood production, and not already allocated or committed for sale.
We’re also helping rural landowners make informed decisions about their plantations.
A dozen organisations across regional Victoria will share in more than $500,000 to support landowners to grow more trees on their properties under the Trees on Farms Incubator Program.
This will deliver region specific projects drawing on local knowledge and expertise.
Landowners will get training and support to design, establish and manage tree planting programs suited to their unique conditions.
In Gippsland, Bass Coast Landcare Network received $42,210 to provide whole-farm planning, farm diversification support, site visits, workshops, and project plan development.
Participants will have opportunities to learn from one another, sharing experiences and accessing specialist advice.
Facilitators will help landowners to develop skills in soil management, carbon farming and choosing trees that will benefit their farms economically, including timber production.
Planting trees on farms delivers strong benefits, including boosting productivity through livestock shelter, protecting crops, reducing erosion and increasing biodiversity.
The Allan Labor Government has a strong track record of investing in Victoria’s plantation estate, including delivering $190 million for plantation development. 
**Quote attributable to Minister for Agriculture Michaela Settle**
_“We’re backing farmers with practical support to grow more trees, strengthen their businesses and create long-term opportunities for regional Victoria.”_
**Quote attributable to Member for Eastern Victoria Harriet Shing**
_“Only Labor is investing in programs that help Gippsland landowners improve their farms, protect the environment and create new opportunities for regional communities.”_
**Quote attributable to Member for Eastern Victoria Tom McIntosh**
_“The Trees on Farms programs are giving landowners access to the advice, training and local support they need to grow productive, sustainable plantations that benefit both farms, the environment, and the forestry industry."_
[ 260529 - More Productive Trees On Farms To Benefit Landowners.pdf PDF 217.08 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-05/260529-More-Productive-Trees-On-Farms-To-Benefit-Landowners.pdf)
Agriculture and regional development
