

Published: 
     Friday 15 May 2026 at 1:30 pm
Labor is backing major events in Melbourne - creating thousands of jobs and growing the economy.
Minister Dimopoulos today released an independent report on Melbourne Park, highlighting the significant benefits it delivers for Victoria.
Melbourne Park’s calendar of major events pumped more than $1.5 billion into the Victorian economy in 2025 and supported around 13,500 jobs.
This is on top of the Australian Open. A separate study commissioned by Tennis Australia found that AO25 attracted a record-breaking 1.2 million tennis fans and generated more than $565m for the Victorian economy.
An additional 2.7 million guests flocked to 455 events at Rod Laver Arena, Margaret Court Arena, John Cain Arena, AAMI Park, Centrepiece and Kia Arena.
More than 470,000 travelled from interstate and overseas, and 359,000 from regional Victoria, booking more than 1.2 million nights in Melbourne hotels and keeping restaurants and local businesses busy.
Megastars including Kylie Minogue, Billie Eilish, Dua Lipa and Drake also drew fans from across the country to enjoy live shows in the heart of Melbourne.
Other crowd pleasers included the record-breaking A-League Men’s Grand Final between Melbourne Victory and Melbourne City FC at AAMI Park, attended by almost 30,000 fans.
There was also the 15-show run of Les Misérables, plus Monster Truck Mania, Disney on Ice, the NBA x NBL Melbourne Series, the F1 Melbourne Fan Festival, Run Melbourne and the AFL Grand Final Parade.
Labor has invested more than $1 billion across the precinct, helping to deliver more events all year round, boosting jobs and the economy.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Sport and Major Events Steve Dimopoulos**
_“We invest in Melbourne Park because we know it means more jobs, more events and more visitors.”_
_“This report shows it’s paying off. Yet another reason why we are the major events capital.”_
**Quote attributable to Melbourne & Olympic Parks Trust CEO John Harnden**
_“For Victorians, and for visitors from around the world, Melbourne Park is where we play. Our diverse calendar of events means there really is something for everyone.”_
[ 260515 - $1.5 Billion Boost To Victorian Economy.pdf PDF 246.35 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-05/260515-%241.5-Billion-Boost-To-Victorian-Economy.pdf)
Tourism and Major Events
