Media Releases 
Published:
25 May 2026
Content
Today the National Anti-Corruption Commissioner, the Hon Paul Brereton AM RFD SC, submitted his resignation to the Governor-General, to take effect on 6 July 2026.
Commissioner Brereton took office as the inaugural Commissioner on 1 July 2023, and will have served three years in the office when his resignation takes effect.
Commissioner Brereton said:
“The Commission was established to provide independent assurance to the Australian people that corrupt conduct in the Commonwealth public sector is appropriately addressed.
“Over the last three years, much progress has been made in pursuit of our mission of enhancing integrity in the Commonwealth public sector. While our mere existence has influenced and shaped behaviour for the better, that has been powerfully reinforced by our extensive education and engagement program, which has enhanced the integrity culture across the sector.
“We have completed assessment of more than 92% of the 7,624 referrals received over the last three years.
“We have published 7 [investigation reports](https://www.nacc.gov.au/investigation-reports-and-case-studies). Our investigations have exposed corrupt conduct in law enforcement agencies, Commonwealth departments and government business enterprises, including cronyism in a recruitment process, a secret commission in a procurement processes, dishonesty in senior executive decision-making, and the leaking of sensitive information about law enforcement investigations to criminal associates. 
“Much more is underway. Our 34 current investigations cover former or current parliamentarians and staff, senior executives in the public service, contractors and consultants, and a grants scheme. Fair and thorough investigations take time, and the outcomes of these and other investigations will emerge in due course, though it is important to remember that many will not result in findings of corrupt conduct. From the outset we have been committed to fairness, and that approach is well embedded in the Commission’s operations. 
“I would like to record my deep appreciation for the support and contributions of the Deputy Commissioners, the Chief Executive Officer, and the committed and diligent staff of the Commission, who work tirelessly in the interests of the Australian people.
“The ongoing focus on matters relating to me personally rather than the Commission’s work is drawing attention away from the Commission’s core purpose of strengthening integrity in the Commonwealth public sector, which has always been my primary focus as Commissioner.
“I believe that the Commission’s success is paramount, and not due to any single person. While I will continue to resist any suggestion of impropriety, I have decided that it is time, now that the Commission is established and functioning with quality staff and good processes, to step aside and allow a new Commissioner to lead it into the next phase of its development into a key and respected component of the integrity architecture of the Commonwealth.”
Media release
[ **** Resignation of National Anti-Corruption Commissioner (PDF 146.93 KB) ](https://www.nacc.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2026-05/Resignation%20of%20National%20Anti-Corruption%20Commissioner.pdf)
#### Court activity
  * [Matters before the court (Opens in a new tab/window)](https://www.nacc.gov.au/matters-court)
  * [ Convictions (Opens in a new tab/window)](https://www.nacc.gov.au/convictions)


<<<<<<< HEAD
Published: 
     Friday 29 May 2026 at 10:00 am
The Allan Labor Government is bringing down power bills by fast-tracking renewable energy projects. 
Minister for Planning Sonya Kilkenny has recently approved a further $2.4 billion in projects through the Development Facilitation Program (DFP).
This will add enough battery storage to power more than half a million homes during peak demand.
The latest approvals include:
  * $1.3 billion Morwell Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) (Latrobe Valley) – powering 344,000 homes during peak demand.
  * $600 million Nine Mile BESS (near Geelong) – Stages 1 and 2 powering 172,000 homes during peak demand.
  * $388 million Gelliondale Wind Farm (Gippsland) – generating enough energy for 49,000 homes annually, plus battery storage for 14,000 homes during peak demand.
  * $130 million Chivers Road BESS (Glenrowan) – powering 34,500 homes during peak demand.


The DFP pathway is about making good decisions faster and projects continue to undergo rigorous planning assessments, agency referrals and consultation.
These approvals mean more than 30 projects worth $11 billion have been approved through the DFP over the past two years – accelerating cleaner, cheaper energy.
Together they have capacity to power 800,000 homes each year and battery storage to power 2.6 million homes during evening peaks.
These projects will create more than 3,800 jobs across construction and operations.
Before the DFP, more than one in five energy applications were delayed at VCAT.
The Liberals have promised to rip up the DFP and renewable energy projects that are driving down power prices. 
Labor’s investments in renewable energy mean Victoria consistently has the lowest wholesale power prices in the country – bringing online even more renewable energy will ensure prices stay low into the future. 
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Planning Sonya Kilkenny**
_“We’re making good decisions faster so Victorians can benefit from cheaper renewable energy sooner.”_
_“Labor is bringing renewables projects online. The Liberals will cut them, cut jobs and push up power prices.”_
**Quote attributable to Minister for Energy and Resources Lily D’Ambrosio**
_“You don’t bring prices down by cutting energy projects – but that’s exactly what the Liberals want to do.”_
_“These projects will shore up Victoria’s energy supply and drive power prices down.”_
[ 260529 - Cutting Power Bills With $11 Billion In Renewables.pdf PDF 255 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-05/260529-Cutting-Power-Bills-With-%2411-Billion-In-Renewables.pdf)
Planning
=======
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
