

Published: 
     Thursday 14 May 2026 at 5:40 pm
The Albanese and Allan Labor Governments are continuing to support communities recovering from the January 2026 bushfires. 
An extra $37 million will help bushfire-affected Victorians get back on their feet where it’s needed most. 
Nearly $33 million will provide more than 100 temporary modular homes for people without adequate insurance whose home was significantly damaged or destroyed.
Navigating insurance and housing issues can also be complicated, so $4 million will fund more legal services for families, small businesses and primary producers. 
Support will be delivered by Disaster Legal Help Victoria and other existing legal centres.
The Rural Financial Counselling Service (RFCS) will also receive an $880,000 boost to employ more financial and wellbeing counsellors. 
The services will provide free, confidential support to farmers as they work through the financial impacts of the bushfires.
This includes analysing their business position, negotiating with lenders and accessing government support.
The wellbeing counsellors will support the mental health of their clients. 
The Rural Financial Counselling Service can be accessed by calling 1300 771 741.
This funding brings the total recovery assistance provided for the January 2026 bushfires to more than $420 million including cost-sharing under the DRFA.
For more information on the DRFA packages and supports provided, visit [vic.gov.au/disaster-recovery-funding-arrangements](http://www.vic.gov.au/disaster-recovery-funding-arrangements).
**Quotes attributable to Federal Minister for Emergency Management Kristy McBain**
“The Albanese Government stands with the bushfire affected communities in Victoria and will make sure they’re being supported throughout the extent of the recovery journey.
“This additional support acknowledges disaster recovery is complex, and we must ensure all available measures have been undertaken.
“We will continue to work together with the Victorian Government to make sure that effective assistance gets to where it’s needed and communities are able to move onto the next stages of recovery.”
**Quote attributable to Victorian Premier and Member for Bendigo East Jacinta Allan**
“We were there from day one and we’ll continue to stand with the impacted communities to deliver the practical help they need to rebuild and recover.” 
**Quotes attributable to Federal Member for Bendigo Lisa Chesters**
“Our hearts still ache for the locals who lost their homes and businesses during the January Ravenswood South - Harcourt bushfire. 
“This increase in funding will help deliver more services and temporary accommodation to local constituents who have been impacted by the January bushfires.” 
**Quote attributable to Victorian Minister for Natural Disaster Recovery Vicki Ward**
“From the first days of the fires through to the recovery ahead, we are there every step of the way – supporting Victorians with vital legal, counselling and accommodation services.” 
**Quote attributable to Victorian Attorney-General Sonya Kilkenny**
“Legal assistance is a vital part of emergency relief and recovery, and I thank the legal assistance sector for their work in providing Victorians the crucial legal help they need.”
**Quote attributable to Victorian Minister for Agriculture Michaela Settle**
“Bushfires leave a lasting impact on farms, families and communities, which is why we’re backing Victorians with the support they need to recover, rebuild and prepare for the future.”
**Quote attributable to Victorian Member for Bendigo West Maree Edwards**
“Our community has been through so much and this support will make sure households stay connected to their land and the local support networks they rely on.”
[ 260514 - More Than $37 Million Boost For Long-Term Bushfire Recovery In Victoria PDF 185.73 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-05/260514-More-Than-%2437-Million-Boost-For-Long-Term-Bushfire-Recovery-In-Victoria.pdf)
Emergency services
