

Published: 
     Thursday 14 May 2026 at 3:23 pm
Drivers in Melbourne’s outer north will soon benefit from safer and more reliable journeys thanks to $45 million in additional funding from the Albanese and Allan Labor Governments. 
The Albanese Government’s commitment of $37.4 million and the Allan Government’s commitment of $7.7 million will progress Stage 2 upgrades on Donnybrook Road. 
This critical project is part of the Federal and Victorian Governments’ joint $1.2 billion Road Blitz to upgrade roads, cut congestion and improve safety in Melbourne’s growing suburbs.
The project will build on Stage 1 of the Donnybrook Road Upgrade, which is currently in pre-construction.
Stage 1 upgrades include transforming the roundabout at Donnybrook Road and Mitchell Street into a fully signalised intersection and building a new bridge over Kalkallo Creek.
Stage 2 will see a second bridge built over the Hume, and Donnybrook Road duplicated between the Hume and Dwyer Street, reducing congestion and improving traffic flow.
Intersection upgrades will also be carried out at the Hume Freeway outbound off-ramp.
New shared walking and cycling paths will be delivered along the northern side of Donnybrook Road between Polaris Road and Dwyer Street.
The upgrades will improve safety on Donnybrook Road and at the Hume Freeway interchange. 
Stages 1 and 2 of the $170.1 million Donnybrook Road Upgrades build on a pipeline of major road upgrades underway across the outer north.
The $175 million Watson Street Interchange Upgrade and Northern Highway Intersection Upgrade in Wallan will also deliver new freeway ramps, additional lanes and upgraded walking and cycling connections. 
The Abbott, Turnbull, Morrison Liberal Governments short-changed Victoria for a decade.
Only Labor Governments invest in the projects people need to save people time and get them home safer
**Quotes attributable to Federal Minister for Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development and Local Government Catherine King:**
“Our new investment of $37.4 million in this year’s Federal Budget will ensure the delivery of Donnybrook Road stage 2. An upgrade that the people living in Melbourne’s outer north have called for and deserve.”
**Quotes attributable to Victorian Minister for Transport Infrastructure Gabrielle Williams:**
“These upgrades will ease congestion, improve safety and deliver better connections for the growing communities of Melbourne’s north.”
**Quotes attributable to Federal Member for Scullin Andrew Giles:**
“The Albanese Labor Government has been listening, and we are investing to ease congestion and take pressure off motorists in this growing part of Melbourne’s north.”
**Quotes attributable to Federal Member for McEwen Rob Mitchell:**
“Donnybrook Road is a critical local connection and these much needed upgrades will make a real difference for the thousands of people in our community who use it every day.”
**Quotes attributable to Federal Member for Calwell Basem Abdo:**
“Our continued investment in Melbourne’s north is making travel to work, and the commute home, quicker and safer for local residents.” 
**Quotes attributable to State Member for Kalkallo Ros Spence:**
“We are continuing to invest in the roads and infrastructure needed to support Melbourne’s fast-growing outer north.”
**Quotes attributable to State Member for Yan Yean Lauren Kathage:**
“These upgrades will help local families spend less time stuck in traffic and make it safer to get around the area.”
[ 260514-More Funding To Upgrade Donnybrook Road.pdf PDF 155.76 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-05/260514-More-Funding-To-Upgrade-Donnybrook-Road.pdf)
Premier
