

Published: 
     Thursday 30 April 2026 at 10:30 am
Victoria’s health system is caring for more Victorians than ever before.
The _Victorian Budget 2026/27_ will open and expand more hospitals in growing outer suburbs and regions.
Only Labor backs our health system so Victorians get the quality, affordable care they need.
**Angliss Hospital**
The Budget invests $44.8 million to open the new and redeveloped Angliss Hospital later this year.
The new four-storey building will be home to four operating theatres, spaces for outpatient services and an additional 32-beds once fully operational.
It will take pressure off the emergency departments and inpatient wards at hospitals in the east.
**Cranbourne Community Hospital**
The Budget invests $87.2 million to open, maintain and expand services at community hospitals.
As part of this investment, an Urgent Care Centre will open later this year at Cranbourne Community Hospital – offering an alternative to the nearby Casey Hospital emergency department.
Six new lifesaving dialysis chairs will also open, so locals who need this care can get it close to home.
**Craigieburn Community Hospital**
As part of the Budget’s investment into community hospitals, an Urgent Care Centre will also open at Craigieburn Community Hospital.
Its dedicated staff already deliver a range of services including dialysis, public dental services and antenatal care.
**Pakenham Community Hospital**
As part of the Budget’s investment into community hospitals, Pakenham Community Hospital will open in early 2027.
Once fully operational, it will deliver services including allied health, pathology, public dental and urgent care.
The Budget will also support services at the Mernda Community Hospital.
**Werribee Mercy Hospital**
The Budget invests $95 million to open the upgraded Werribee Mercy Hospital Emergency Department this year.
The expansion is doubling the ED’s capacity, and once fully operational will feature:
  * 67 treatment spaces – double the current number
  * six spaces for treating issues related to mental health, alcohol and other drugs
  * separate but co-located paediatric and acute and short stay zones


It will mean local nurses and doctors can treat an additional 25,000 patients each year once fully operational.
**University Hospital Geelong**
The Budget invests $20.3 million to expand services at the paediatric emergency department at the University Hospital Geelong.
This improves access to specialist emergency care for families in Geelong, Bellarine and the Surf Coast.
Hospital can be a daunting place for kids, and this ED is specially designed to support children when they need it.
**Shepparton Hospital**
The Budget invests $7.1 million to operationalise a new PET scanner at Shepparton Hospital.
Travelling to Melbourne can be a hassle for people living in regional communities.
This investment improves access to advanced diagnostics, including for cancer – reducing patient travel times and keeping care closer to home.
**Melton Hospital**
The Budget invests $2 million in early planning and operational readiness for the New Melton Hospital, so it’s prepared for day one.
Structural works have started on the new Melton Hospital.
It will provide care close to home for people in Caroline Springs, Gisborne, Rockbank, Melton and Bacchus Marsh and treat 130,000 patients every year.
**Labor’s record**
We’ve built 11 hospitals and hired 17,000 nurses and midwives because Labor always invests in our health system.
Jess Wilson’s Liberals have a track record of cutting, closing and privatising hospitals.
Now they have an $11.5 billion black hole in their Budget, and that means one thing: cuts to health that hurt.
Only Labor has new solutions to make life easier, safer and more affordable.
**Quotes attributable to Premier Jacinta Allan**
_“From Cranbourne to Werribee to Geelong, we are delivering better care for families in fast growing communities.”_
_"Labor is investing in great local public hospitals – do the Liberals support it, or will they cut it?"_
**Quote attributable to Minister for Health Harriet Shing**
_“Labor is opening and expanding services where they’re needed most, in our growing suburbs and regions.”_
_“Where the Liberals cut and close, these new and upgraded services will give more Victorians the care they need, closer to home.”_
**Quote attributable to Minister for Health Infrastructure Melissa Horne**
_“ Our health infrastructure investments are improving care for more Victorians right across the state.”_
[ 260430 - Labor Is Building And Opening New Hospitals.pdf PDF 352.53 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-04/260430-Labor-Is-Building-And-Opening-New-Hospitals.pdf)
Premier
