Primary producers are invited to join us at a free workshop to help you prepare your property for fire season.
## Key details
**Date** | 13 May to 11 June  
---|---  
**Time** | 8.30am–2.30pm  
**Location** | Injune, Surat, Chinchilla, Maidenwell  
**Cost** | Free  
**How to register** | Register with the unique event links below  
## About
Delivered by the Department of Primary Industries, a series of free property mapping workshops will equip landholders with the tools and knowledge to prepare for the upcoming bushfire season.
These workshops offer tailored fire management planning, expert advice and practical strategies to reduce bushfire risks and protect critical assets and livestock.
You’ll take part in a one-on-one property mapping activity that includes tailored advice from Dr Leasie Felderhof, an expert in fire behaviour and risk. This will help you map out hazards specific to your property, consider mitigation strategies that balance grazing management, fuel reduction and biodiversity.
A large map of your property will be provided for use during the workshop but you **must register to attend** before registrations close.
## Learn about
  * Fire dynamics: Key factors influencing fire, predicting its spread and behaviour across landscape types.
  * Fire management: Principles and fire responses for different grazing and landscape types and the role and/or timing of planned burns.
  * Fire and grazing: Managing pasture composition, controlling weeds, protecting assets, mitigating wildfire damage, and integrating fire mitigation activities into farm business plans.
  * Fire planning: Protecting your property from wildfire and using fire as a land management tool.
  * Fire permits and other fire-related legislation.


## Event overview
At the workshop, you will:
  * develop a property-specific fire management plan
  * take home a big map of your property to help with future planning (if you register to attend before registrations close)
  * learn more about the financial support available after disasters.


Morning tea and lunch will be provided.
The workshop is being delivered by the Queensland Government’s [Industry Recovery and Resilience Officer program](https://www.business.qld.gov.au/industries/farms-fishing-forestry/agriculture/disaster/funding/industry-recovery-resilience-officers), which is jointly funded by the Australian and Queensland governments under [Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements](https://www.qra.qld.gov.au/funding/drfa).
## Event details and registration links
Date and time | Location | Address | Registrations close | Registration link  
---|---|---|---|---  
Wednesday 13 May, 8.30am–2.30pm  | Injune Memorial Hall  | 38 Hutton Street, Injune  | Thursday 23 April |   
Thursday 21 May, 8.30am–2.30pm | The Club Hotel, Chinchilla | 131 Heeney Street, Chinchilla | Thursday 30 April |   
Tuesday 9 June, 8.30am–2.30pm | Maidenwell Memorial Hall | Pool Street, Maidenwell | Wednesday 20 May |   
Thursday 11 June, 8.30am–2.30pm | Surat New Royal Hotel | 63 Burrowes Street, Surat | Tuesday 28 April |   
**Email**
## Topics
Agriculture
Last updated: 14 May 2026 
