# New Indigenous Healing Service for FDV impacted youth in Midland 
A new Indigenous Healing Service (IHS) for Aboriginal children and young people aged up to 24 years impacted by family violence in the Midland area will be delivered by Koya Aboriginal Corporation. 
  * Cook Government awards contract to Koya Aboriginal Corporation to deliver a new Indigenous Healing Service in the north-eastern suburbs
  * Midland-based service to provide culturally grounded support for Aboriginal children and young people impacted by family violence
  * Part of $8.2 million package to deliver accessible therapeutic support for young people, building safer and more inclusive communities across Western Australia


A new Indigenous Healing Service (IHS) for Aboriginal children and young people aged up to 24 years impacted by family violence in the Midland area will be delivered by Koya Aboriginal Corporation. 
The new service is part of an $8.2 million package to deliver accessible therapeutic healing services to children and young people affected by family violence as part of the Cook Government's commitment to building safe and inclusive communities.
The IHS model recognises that Aboriginal children, young people and families experience disproportionately high levels of family violence, with devastating impacts on their health and wellbeing.
The new service will deliver an Aboriginal led, culturally grounded model of support and will include healing activities such as art, storytelling, movement, cultural mentoring and on Country experiences to support recovery and help children and young people feel safe, connected and supported.
Koya Aboriginal Corporation is a well-regarded Aboriginal Community Controlled Organisation that provides a wide variety of supports for young Aboriginal people in the north-east and south-west metropolitan area.
This initiative shows continued commitment to, and delivery of the Strengthening Responses to Family and Domestic Violence: System Reform Plan 2024 to 2029, which identifies the need for appropriately resourced specialist responses for victim-survivors and more opportunities to enhance case coordination to support children and young people.
**Comments attributed to Prevention of Family and Domestic Violence Minister****Jessica Stojkovski:**
"Exposure to family violence can have a devastating impact on the health, safety and wellbeing of children and young people, negatively affecting every aspect of their development, mental health, schooling and peer relationships.   

"Proving safe spaces and an opportunity for connection, stability and therapeutic support can assist children and young people to heal and recover. This not only benefits their immediate safety and wellbeing but also helps reduce the lifelong impacts of this type of trauma.
"Importantly, this service will be delivered by an Aboriginal Community Controlled Organisation in Koya Aboriginal Corporation. 
"This demonstrates the Cook Government's continued commitment to building safe and inclusive communities."
**Comments attributed to Midland MLA Steve Catania****:**
"This announcement is fantastic news for Midland. Koya Aboriginal Corporation has a track record of doing exceptional work with young people and having them lead this service in our community is a huge win.
"I am very proud of the Cook Government for its ongoing investment in Midland and recognising the need for culturally‑grounded healing services right where they're needed most.
"This commitment will make a real and lasting difference for young Aboriginal people in our community."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
9 March 2026 
Ministers
###  [ Hon. Jessica Stojkovski ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Jessica%20Stojkovski)
Minister for Child Protection; Prevention of Family and Domestic Violence; Minister Assisting the Minister for Transport; Peel 
[See all media statements from this Government](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government)
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](https://subscribe.dpc.wa.gov.au)
