

Published: 
     Tuesday 10 March 2026 at 2:30 pm
One of the state’s most iconic overnight hiking trails reopens to visitors following extensive safety works following bushfire damage. 
Minister Dimopoulos today announced the 164-kilometre Grampians Peaks Trail has now fully reopened. 
The five hiking campgrounds in the central sections of the Grampians Peaks Trail, destroyed in the 2024-25 Bushfires, are now open for families to stay. 
The rebuilt Barri Yalug, Duwul, Durd Durd, Yarram and Wannon hiking campgrounds provide safe and accessible facilities designed to support multi-day hiking in the great outdoors. 
While most of the trail reopened in July, the remoteness and extent of the damage meant the central section was closed to overnight hikers while extensive rebuilding was done.
The Grampians Peaks Trail was delivered by the Labor Government in 2022 to support jobs and bring tourism to the Grampians and western Victoria while letting families enjoy an affordable weekend away in the great outdoors.
The fires in December and January 2024-25 severely impacted local biodiversity, cultural places, and visitor assets in the south-eastern, southern, and western areas of the park.
Recovery efforts began shortly after the fires ended, supported by $36 million funding from the Allan Labor Government and Albanese Labor Government.
More than 135,000 hectares of the Grampians (Gariwerd) National Park was burnt by the bushfires.
Work has focused on critical biodiversity protection and visitor site recovery, including repairs to roads, walking trails and campgrounds to make it safe.
For bookings, please visit [parks.vic.gov.au](https://www.parks.vic.gov.au/places-to-see/parks/grampians-national-park/things-to-do/grampians-peaks-trail). 
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Environment Steve Dimopoulos**
_“The Grampians Peak Trail is one of Victoria’s most spectacular walks, and we’re thrilled hikers can get back out there to enjoy it.”_
_“We will continue to invest regional Victoria so families and tourists can see our best of our great outdoors.”_
**Quote attributable to Member for Western Victoria Jacinta Ermacora**
_“We will continue to support the Grampians and all bushfire and disaster-affected communities, wherever they are, and we’re backing them with the funding they need.”_
[ 260310 - Grampians Peaks Trail Open To Hikers.pdf PDF 179.11 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-03/260310-Grampians-Peaks-Trail-Open-To-Hikers.pdf)
Environment
