# Government's take joint action to support Liberty Bell Bay workers during sale process
15 May 2026 
Jeremy Rockliff, Premier 
Felix Ellis, Minister for Business, Industry and Resources 
The Australian and Tasmanian Governments have provided additional support for Liberty Bell Bay workers while the administration and sale process continues.  
  
A second short-term worker support package has been presented to the administrators for a further two weeks.  
  
This 50:50 commitment will support the payment of employee wages while administrators continue progressing the current process and discussions with interested parties.  
  
This support is intended to provide workers and their families with some certainty during what continues to be a difficult and uncertain period for the Bell Bay community.  
  
The loan will help maintain the existing workforce and specialist industrial capability while administrators continue discussions with interested parties regarding the future of the facility.  
  
Both Governments will continue working closely with administrators as the sale process progresses, with the shared objective of securing the best possible outcome for workers, the Bell Bay community and Australia’s sovereign industrial capability.  
  
The Australian and Tasmanian Governments are giving administrators every chance for a sale to occur.  
  
**Quotes attributed to Jeremy Rockliff, Premier of Tasmania**  
  
“We recognise the uncertainty faced by workers, families, businesses and the broader George Town community.  
  
“This decision is about backing workers and their families while administrators work through the final steps of the sales process.  
  
“Our focus has always been on supporting workers, protecting the Bell Bay community and preserving options for the future of the smelter.  
  
“I thank the Australian Government for working with us to support Liberty’s workforce during a challenging situation.”  
  
**Quotes attributed to Tim Ayres, Minister for Industry and Innovation and Minister for Science**   
  
“We know this is a very difficult time for the facility’s workers, families, and the broader Bell Bay community.  
  
“This support backs the workers at Liberty Bell Bay during the final stages of the sales process – who have been let down by the facility’s previous owner.  
  
“The Commonwealth and Tasmanian Governments are working closely together through this sales process – and I thank the Tasmanian Government for the partnership.”  
  
**Quotes attributed to Felix Ellis, Minister for Business, Industry and Resources**  
  
“The best outcome for the workers, the community and small businesses is for the administrator to secure a buyer for the smelter.  
  
“During a visit to Canberra yesterday, Minister Ayres and I discussed the partnership arrangements between our two Governments.  
  
“The offer presented to the administrator will be on the basis of a number of conditions being met and we will be closely examining the potential buyers.  
  
“The site needs a buyer willing and able to invest in the future of the plant and its people.”  
  
**Quotes attributed to Jess Teesdale, Federal Member for Bass**  
  
“This continues to be a very difficult time for our community while the uncertainty of the sales process progresses.  
  
“The partnership between the Commonwealth and Tasmanian Government is vital to getting the best possible outcome for our community.”
[ More Media Releases from Jeremy Rockliff ](https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/search?queries_membername_query=347514+)
