# Tasmanians invited to have their say on assisted dying legislation 
23 April 2026 
Bridget Archer, Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing 
Tasmanians are being invited to have their say on how the State’s voluntary assisted dying legislation is operating since being introduced in October 2022.  
  
The public consultation is part of a statutory review being carried out by an independent panel of experts to assess the law’s first three years of operation, as set out in the _End-of-Life Choices (Voluntary Assisted Dying) Act 2021_.  
  
Feedback from the Tasmanian community will play an important role in shaping the panel’s findings and informing its recommendations, with individuals and organisations now able to share their views.  
  
Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing, Bridget Archer, said the consultation and wider review would seek to identify any opportunities to strengthen voluntary assisted dying services.  
  
“Tasmanians should have the right to make their own choices at the end-of-life, including access to voluntary assisted dying supported by registered health practitioners if they are eligible,” Minister Archer said.  
  
“An independent panel is reviewing the underpinning legislation to assess how voluntary assisted dying services have operated in the first three years and identify any areas for improvement.  
  
“Public consultation is now open, with community members invited to have their say on this important topic over the coming weeks and months through in-person events or written submissions.”  
  
Tasmanians can provide feedback online through email submissions, written comment, or completion of a web survey that will open in the first week of May.  
  
In-person consultation sessions will be held in northern Tasmania in the week commencing 27 April, and in southern Tasmania in the week commencing 1 June.  
  
Earlier this year, an expert panel, comprising Professor Emerita the Honourable Kate Warner AC, Professor Ben White, and Professor Michael Ashby, was appointed to conduct the law’s review after an extensive expression of interest process.  
  
For more information, visit: [www.vadindependentreview.tas.gov.au](http://www.vadindependentreview.tas.gov.au)
[ More Media Releases from Bridget Archer ](https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/search?queries_membername_query=453326+)
