* * *
Deputy Prime Minister
Minister for Defence
* * *
Assistant Minister for Defence
* * *
4 March 2026 
The Albanese Government has passed legislation in the Parliament which will establish the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Defence (PJCD).
The establishment of the PJCD implements a recommendation of the Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Trade’s Inquiry into international armed conflict decision-making made during the 47th Parliament, following a referral from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Defence.
This was not the first time a committee recommended the establishment of a statutory committee dedicated to Defence, but it is the first time a government has taken it up. 
The PJCD will allow Parliament to be briefed on matters relating to the Australian Defence Force, Department of Defence, Australian Submarine Agency, Department of Veterans’ Affairs and other Defence portfolio agencies.
Importantly, it will be able to receive and consider classified information to conduct effective scrutiny of Defence and its portfolio agencies, and strengthen government decision‑making on defence and strategic policy.
The legislation passed today establishes appropriate safeguards that enhance Parliamentary accountability and transparency while ensuring sensitive information about Australia’s national security, and that of our international partners, is protected.
We live in a complex world and it is increasingly important that the Parliament and public are able to better understand Australia’s strategic circumstances and scrutinise the decisions that governments have to make to keep Australians safe. 
The Committee will also be responsible for monitoring and reviewing on an ongoing basis the Government’s response to the findings of any Royal Commission inquiries relating to Defence, including the Royal Commission into Defence and Veteran Suicide.
The Committee’s membership will be confirmed in due course. 
The Committee’s make‑up will be similar to the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security, with the Prime Minister, in consultation with the leader of the Opposition, to appoint 13 members, comprised of seven government and six non-government members across both Houses of Parliament.
[ Parliament passes legislation to establish Defence committee The Hon Richard Marles MP | The Hon Peter Khalil MP  4 Mar 26  ](
[ Australia’s steadfast support for Ukraine four years on The Hon Anthony Albanese MP | The Hon Richard Marles MP & others  24 Feb 26  ](
[ Albanese Government announces acquisition of long-lead items for AUKUS nuclear propulsion systems The Hon Richard Marles MP | The Hon Pat Conroy MP  24 Feb 26  ](
[ $250 million upgrade secures Navy's future in North Queensland The Hon Peter Khalil MP | Senator the Hon Nita Green & others  24 Feb 26  ](
[ AUKUS enters new era with the arrival of UK submarine into Western Australia The Hon Richard Marles MP | The Hon Pat Conroy MP  22 Feb 26  ](
[ Major shipbuilding contracts underpin Army's transformation The Hon Richard Marles MP | The Hon Pat Conroy MP  20 Feb 26  ](
