Search keyword
Search
#  Joint media release: Australia and Fiji ratify Pacific Resilience Facility Treaty
6 May 2026
Senator the Hon Penny Wong, Minister for Foreign Affairs   
The Hon Sakiasi R Ditoka MP, Minister for Foreign Affairs and External Trade, Fiji   
The Hon Chris Bowen MP, Minister for Climate Change and Energy  
The Hon Pat Conroy MP, Minister for Pacific Islands Affairs
* * *
Australia and Fiji are pleased to announce the formal ratification of the Pacific Resilience Facility (PRF) Treaty, a landmark agreement that places Pacific communities in control of their own resilience financing.
This is an important step toward ensuring Pacific Island Countries have greater resources and control in addressing the growing impacts of climate change.
Australian Foreign Minister Penny Wong and Fiji’s Minister for Foreign Affairs and External Trade, Sakiasi Ditoka, today lodged ratification documents for the Agreement to Establish the Pacific Resilience Facility (Treaty) at the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat in Suva in the presence of Secretary General Baron Waqa.
The PRF is the first Pacific-led, owned and managed community resilience financing facility. It will provide grants for climate adaptation, disaster preparedness, and projects that respond to loss and damage. It will seize the economic opportunities of clean energy through resilient, community‑led projects.
The Pre-COP, to be hosted by Fiji and Tuvalu in October, will bring leaders to the Pacific to see climate impacts and solutions first-hand, with a special session at COP31 to provide a platform for pledges to the PRF.
Donors are encouraged to use this opportunity to announce new pledges to maintain momentum towards the ‘USD1.5 billion for a 1.5-degree world’ fundraising goal.
Tonga, Nauru, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Cook Islands, New Zealand and Niue have already ratified the Treaty. This is a clear reflection of Pacific Islands Forum Leaders’ shared resolve to create a Pacific-led institution that puts communities at the centre of resilience financing.
This step paves the way for the initial call for proposals, set for launch at the 55th Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Meeting in Palau in late August 2026.
