<<<<<<< HEAD
#  Delivering high-quality ADHD care through general practice
29 May 2026 
Bridget Archer, Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing 
The Tasmanian Government continues to make life easier and cheaper for Tasmanian families to access care for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) through their GP.  
  
Training is now underway that will support GPs to expand their scope of practice to assess, diagnose, and initiate the prescription of medication for children and adults with ADHD.  
  
Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing, Bridget Archer, said we are delivering the care Tasmanians need by providing GPs with the training they need to help meet the rising demand for ADHD care.  
  
“We know demand for ADHD support has risen across Tasmania and throughout Australia and this important step will make it easier to be diagnosed and treated, which can be life-changing for individuals and families,” Minister Archer said.  
  
“Until now, GPs in Tasmania have been able to support patients by continuing prescriptions for people who have already been diagnosed with ADHD by a paediatrician or psychiatrist, but they have not been able to assess, diagnose, or initiate medication themselves.   
  
“Our Government is working closely with stakeholders – including paediatricians, psychiatrists, pharmacists, and GPs – to deliver training that will enable GPs to diagnose, treat and manage ADHD.  
  
“The first GP training workshop is being delivered today in Devonport as part of the Tasmanian Rural Health Conference, with nearly 50 GPs signed up to attend the session.”  
  
Participants who complete the required training will be able to apply to the Department of Health’s Pharmaceutical Services Branch to initiate prescribing Schedule 8 medications for patients they have assessed and diagnosed with ADHD.  
  
The training module will also become available online following the conference, enabling more Tasmanian GPs to complete the training in their own time remotely.  
  
Minister Archer said this is an important enabling step in delivering a key commitment from the 2025 State Election to provide Tasmanians with timely, improved access to ADHD services.  
  
“We expect the first Tasmanian GPs to be practicing under this expanded scope and providing high-quality ADHD care in the next month,” Minister Archer said.  
  
“This will be a game changer for Tasmanian families, slashing wait times for assessments, cutting medical costs, and ensuring lifelong ADHD care that’s easier to access right across the State.”
[ More Media Releases from Bridget Archer ](https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/search?queries_membername_query=454320+)
=======
#  Joint media release: Albanese Labor Government delivers additional diesel to Queensland
30 May 2026
Anthony Albanese, Prime Minister of Australia  
Senator the Hon Don Farrell, Minister for Trade and Tourism  
The Hon Chris Bowen MP, Minister for Climate Change and Energy
* * *
The Albanese Labor Government has secured another 40 million litres of additional diesel for Queenslanders, through an agreement between Export Finance Australia (EFA) and independent supplier Freedom Fuels.
This shipment is due to arrive to Brisbane in June for onwards distribution to regional Queensland. This is in addition to 16 separate shipments already secured in partnership with Ampol, BP Australia, IOR and Viva Energy.
Combined, this brings the total amount of additional fuel shipments through the Government’s new Fuel and Fertiliser Security Facility to approximately 690 million litres of diesel and approximately 150 million litres of jet fuel across 17 additional shipments.
EFA has partnered with Ampol, BP Australia, Freedom Fuels, IOR and Viva Energy to make these 17 additional cargoes of diesel and jet fuel possible so far. More shipments are expected under these agreements.
Under its Strategic Reserve powers, the Albanese Government has also now supported an additional approximately 205,000 tonnes of agricultural grade urea through agreements between EFA, CSBP and Incitec Pivot.
Through these measures and ongoing negotiations with industry, the Albanese Government is securing essential fuel and fertiliser supplies to safeguard Australians from the impacts of continuing global volatility, and to keep our nation and our people moving.
**Quotes attributable to Prime Minister Anthony Albanese:**
“In the face of global instability, we are leaving no stone unturned as we work to keep Australia moving, working and flying.
“This is a win for regional Queensland when they need it most, through a partnership between our Government and a business with demonstrated and reliable pathways to ensure fuel gets to farmers and growers who need it.”
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Trade Don Farrell:**
“By underwriting additional fuel purchases, the Albanese Government is helping to keep our road transport and farm machinery moving at a time of supply volatility.
"This particular purchase of diesel will provide confidence to tourists planning to undertake road trips to regional Queensland.”
**Quotes attributable to Minister Climate Change and Energy Chris Bowen:**
“Our Government is continuing to do everything we can to secure our fuel security, to shield Australians from the impacts of the ongoing conflict in the Middle East.
“This 40 million litres of extra diesel will ensure that we keep households, farmers and businesses in regional Queensland moving.”
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
