# Design contract signals decisive step in Henderson Defence Precinct consolidation
## Release details
### Release type
### Related ministers and contacts
* * *
#### The Hon Pat Conroy MP
Minister for Defence Industry
Minister for Pacific Island Affairs
##### Media contact
### General enquiries
* * *
####  The Hon Paul Papalia CSC MLA 
WA Minister for Defence Industry
## Release content
8 March 2026 
The Albanese Government has taken the next step in establishing a consolidated defence precinct at Henderson to support sovereign shipbuilding and sustainment in Western Australia.
Bechtel Infrastructure Australia (Bechtel) has been appointed as the design services consultancy to undertake master planning of the defence precinct.
Bechtel will provide specialist infrastructure design advice and work with a range of stakeholders to create the plan.
In 2024, the Albanese Government announced $127 million to progress planning for the defence precinct.
Last year, the Albanese Government backed this commitment with an additional $12 billion to support the delivery phase for the long-term development of the defence precinct.
This contract is the next step in realising these investments in the west.
The defence precinct will play a vital role in securing continuous naval shipbuilding and sustainment in Australia, delivering critical capabilities for the Australian Defence Force, and contributing to the support of about 10,000 direct jobs in the west over the next two decades.
The Commonwealth is working hand in glove with the West Australian Government to deliver the defence precinct.
The defence precinct will include:
  * Construction facilities for the Royal Australian Army’s landing craft and Australia’s future Mogami‑class frigates following successful consolidation of the Henderson precinct;
  * Support infrastructure for conventional submarines and surface combatant vessels;
  * Contingency docking capabilities for Australia’s future conventionally armed, nuclear-powered submarines; and
  * Depot-level maintenance capabilities.


Planning and feasibility studies have already commenced and will continue throughout 2026.
Establishment of the defence precinct will occur over the next decade to align with defence capability needs and minimise disruption to local industry and communities.
Alongside the Albanese Government's record investments across shipbuilding and AUKUS in the west, these commitments will support 10,000 direct jobs over the next two decades as well as providing opportunities for small and medium sized businesses across the state.
For more information visit: 
_**Quotes attributable to Minister for Defence Industry, the Hon Pat Conroy MP:**_
“Awarding this contract moves us closer to making the Henderson Defence Precinct the home of continuous naval shipbuilding and sustainment, and a critical sustainment site for our future submarine capability.
“The master planning stage is an important step in shaping the defence precinct’s future capability needs and supporting a strong, sovereign industrial base.
“This contract reflects our commitment to partnering with industry to build a smarter, faster and more innovative maritime capability hub.
“Input and insights from industry and other stakeholders will lay the groundwork for defence industrial depth and long-term national resilience.”
_**Quotes attributable to WA Minister for Defence Industry, the Hon Paul Papalia CSC MLA:**_
“The Cook Government welcomes the appointment of Bechtel Infrastructure Australia to complete master planning of the Henderson Defence Precinct.
“This project will support thousands of highly skilled jobs and ensure Western Australia is home to the largest naval maintenance hub in the southern hemisphere.
“The WA Government is working closely with the Albanese Government to help local industry and workers to take advantage of the enormous opportunities this investment will create.”
## Other related releases
[ Design contract signals decisive step in Henderson Defence Precinct consolidation The Hon Pat Conroy MP | The Hon Paul Papalia CSC MLA  8 Mar 26  ](https://www.minister.defence.gov.au/media-releases/2026-03-08/design-contract-signals-decisive-step-henderson-defence-precinct-consolidation)
[ Product of Concern Summit for Collins class sustainment The Hon Pat Conroy MP | Senator the Hon Katy Gallagher  2 Mar 26  ](https://www.minister.defence.gov.au/media-releases/2026-03-02/product-concern-summit-collins-class-sustainment)
[ Albanese Government announces acquisition of long-lead items for AUKUS nuclear propulsion systems The Hon Richard Marles MP | The Hon Pat Conroy MP  24 Feb 26  ](https://www.minister.defence.gov.au/media-releases/2026-02-24/albanese-government-announces-acquisition-long-lead-items-aukus-nuclear-propulsion-systems)
[ AUKUS enters new era with the arrival of UK submarine into Western Australia The Hon Richard Marles MP | The Hon Pat Conroy MP  22 Feb 26  ](https://www.minister.defence.gov.au/media-releases/2026-02-22/aukus-enters-new-era-arrival-uk-submarine-into-western-australia)
[ Travel to the United Kingdom The Hon Pat Conroy MP  21 Feb 26  ](https://www.minister.defence.gov.au/media-releases/2026-02-21/travel-united-kingdom)
[ Major shipbuilding contracts underpin Army's transformation The Hon Richard Marles MP | The Hon Pat Conroy MP  20 Feb 26  ](https://www.minister.defence.gov.au/media-releases/2026-02-20/major-shipbuilding-contracts-underpin-armys-transformation)
