Search keyword
Search
#  Joint media release: Biggest electricity boost in West Australian history
2 May 2026
The Hon Chris Bowen MP, Minister for Climate Change and Energy  
The Hon Josh Wilson MP, Assistant Minister for Climate Change and Energy  
The Hon Amber-Jade Sanderson MLA, WA Minister for Energy and Decarbonisation
* * *
The Albanese and Cook Labor Governments are delivering an historic boost to WA’s energy system with 1.9 gigawatts (GW) of cheaper, cleaner renewable generation and 482 megawatts (MW) of battery storage as part of 10 new projects set to be built across regional WA.
Supported through the Albanese Government’s flagship Capacity Investment Scheme (CIS), the six onshore wind farms, three standalone big batteries and one solar and battery project represent a huge electricity boost from the largest ever tender for renewable energy in WA.
The projects from this tender alone will generate enough electricity to power more than 1 million WA households and provide enough dispatchable storage capacity to support more than 400,000 households for four hours during peak demand.  
Spread from Three Springs down to Collie and across to Kondinin, the projects represent $5 billion in new energy infrastructure investment. 
Due to be operational by 2030, they will create 7,000 construction jobs and 500 maintenance jobs in the Wheatbelt, Mid-West, Peel and South West across their lifetime.
As the state prepares to exit coal-fired power by 2030, these projects will help keep the lights on, put downward pressure on power prices and cut emissions with cheaper, cleaner renewable energy backed by storage.
The successful projects will not only help deliver reliability and affordability themselves, but will help drive more investment in cleaner, cheaper energy across the Western Energy Market (WEM).
Six wind farm projects and a solar farm-battery hybrid installation will result in a total generation capacity of 1.886 GW and 2.1 GWh in storage.
Three battery storage projects will deliver 482 MW / 3,683 MWh of dispatchable capacity.
Throughout their lifetime, these projects will pump hundreds of millions of dollars into local economies, using Australian steel and providing First Nations communities with high-end training and employment opportunities.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Climate Change and Energy, Chris Bowen**
“This is the biggest electricity boost in WA’s history, and it is exactly what the Capacity Investment Scheme was designed to deliver. Cleaner, cheaper energy, backed by storage, built in the regions and powering Australian homes and businesses.
“WA’s energy system is changing, and the Albanese Government is making sure that change means more reliability, more investment, more jobs and lower bills and emissions.
“After a decade of delay and denial, we are getting on with the job of building the energy Australia needs, firmed renewables that deliver for households, industry and regional communities.” 
**Quotes attributable to Assistant Minister for Climate Change and Energy, Josh Wilson**
“This is a historic investment by the Albanese government in WA’s clean energy future. It gives us the cleaner, cheaper renewable energy we need to replace coal-fired power. These projects will generate enough energy for more than 1 million WA homes and pump $255 million into local economies and deliver jobs and growth for regional and rural WA. 
“The success of these tenders demonstrates a strong pipeline of renewable energy projects in Western Australia, particularly for onshore wind.
“We’ve already seen renewable generation reach 46.1% in the WEM between January and March, which is more than 5% higher than the same period last year. This will drive WA’s renewable energy capacity to the next level.” 
**Quotes attributable to WA Minister for Energy and Decarbonisation, Amber-Jade Sanderson MLA**
“The Cook Labor Government has supercharged the renewable energy transition by supporting many of these projects through power purchase agreements - giving proponents the certainty they needed to get off the ground.
“This major investment from the Albanese Government will ramp up this important pipeline of work, creating thousands of quality local jobs and decarbonising our economy. 
“We are delivering the energy transition - establishing our State as a clean energy powerhouse and providing affordable, reliable and renewable power for Western Australians.”
**_Tender 5_**
Tender 5 was the first generation-tender in the WEM and resulted in seven successful projects:
**Project** | **Proponent** | **Technology** | **Capacity (MW)** | **Location (all WA)**  
---|---|---|---|---  
Yathroo Wind Farm | Neoen Australia | Wind | 420 | Yathroo  
Narrogin Wind Farm | Neoen Australia | Wind | 168 | Minigin  
Kondinin Wind Farm | Shell Energy & Foresight | Wind | 130 | Kondinin  
Tathra Windfarm | SynergyRED | Wind | 240 | Eneabba  
Waddi Wind Farm | Tilt Renewables | Wind | 108 | Dandaragan  
Parron Maam Marang Farm |  Zephyr Energy (Atmos Renewables) | Wind | 470 | Hill River  
Killawarra Hybrid Project | Trina Solar | Solar + Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) | 350 | Kadathinni  
** _Tender 6_**
Following the announcement of Tender 2 in March 2025, Tender 6 was the second dispatchable capacity tender in the WEM, with 3 successful projects:
**Project** | **Proponent** | **Capacity (MW)** | **Capacity (MWh)** | **Location**  
---|---|---|---|---  
Collie Battery and Solar Hybrid Project | Enpowered & Plenary Group | 200 | 1,518 | Palmer  
Yathroo Battery | Neoen Australia | 200 | 1,600 | Mimegarra  
Waroona Renewable Energy Project (WREP) - Stage 1 | Frontier Energy | 82 | 565 | Wagerup  
The Australian Government remains committed to our transition to net zero and that includes ensuring that WA’s stand-alone grid provides cleaner, cheaper, and more reliable energy.
Not including today’s announcement, 65 successful CIS projects have been announced to date, which translates to 13 GW of renewable generation and 21.6 GWh of clean dispatchable capacity. 
Estimated social licence commitments for these projects include over $1.1 billion in shared community benefits, $894.8 million in benefits for First Nations communities and over $1.1 billion in Australian steel. 
