# Australia and Canada partner on safe and trustworthy AI
6 March 2026
**Joint media release with Tim Ayres, Minister for Industry and Innovation and Minister for Science.**
Australia and Canada are strengthening cooperation on AI safety through a new Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), signed by Assistant Minister Charlton at the AI Summit in India, and formalised in the 
The MOU will deepen information exchange on AI technologies. Joint work will advance AI safety through evaluation, measurement, and mitigation.
The two countries will exchange talent and work together to develop tools, methods, and frameworks for AI testing and evaluation across the full life cycle of AI systems.
Australia and Canada have been leading work on reducing risks from AI generated content as founding members of the International Network for Advanced AI Measurement, Evaluation and Science.
You can read [the MoU in full here](https://www.industry.gov.au/publications/memorandum-understanding-artificial-intelligence-safety-collaboration-between-australia-and-canada). 
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Industry and Innovation and Minister for Science, Senator the Hon Tim Ayres:**
“International cooperation is essential for capturing the opportunities, sharing the benefits and mitigating the risks of new AI technologies. 
“Australia and Canada are working together to make sure AI is safe, trustworthy and aligned with democratic values. 
“This MOU between Australia’s new AI Safety Institute and the Canadian AI Safety Institute will facilitate cooperation including joint research, risk mitigation, technical information sharing and talent exchange."
**Quotes attributable to Assistant Minister for Science, Technology and the Digital Economy, Dr Andrew Charlton:**
“Canada has long been a trusted friend and partner of Australia and we share common goals on safe and inclusive AI innovation. 
“By combining our expertise and sharing information we can better mitigate AI risks and develop tools that ensure all Australia’s share the benefit of AI.
“The MoU reinforces both Australia’s and Canada’s role as world leaders on coordinating work on international guidelines and standards for AI.”
