<<<<<<< HEAD
# Wille’s thought bubble sinks without a trace
27 May 2026 
Eric Abetz, Treasurer 
Labor’s thought bubble to create a brand-new big bureaucracy, to gut TT-Line and replace TasPorts seems to have disappeared as quickly as his predecessor’s union-imposed plan to gut Hydro.
Mr Willie has not spoken publicly about this so-called plan since floating it during the worst budget reply speech in the history of Parliament.
His colleagues have also jumped ship. Not one has referred to the alleged centrepiece of his reply in the media since it was floated.
Labor is right to be embarrassed by the Willie misfire.
Tasmanians want real solutions to debt reduction, not a half-baked proposal to simply shift debt into an unnamed government entity.
[ More Media Releases from Eric Abetz ](https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/search?queries_membername_query=347357+)
=======
# Locust alert. Report activity now
**27 May 2026**
Agriculture Victoria is urging landholders and land managers to report locust activity to support reducing the risk of damaging infestations this spring.
Adult locusts are active in north-west Victoria following favourable conditions, with numbers above usual levels for this time of year.
Dr Kyla Finlay, Victoria’s Plague Locust Commissioner, said high numbers are also seen in New South Wales and South Australia and have likely contributed to migrations entering Victoria.
‘Agriculture Victoria is encouraging all landholders and land managers to report locust activity to us using the report locusts form,’ Dr Finlay said.
‘Early reporting allows for locust activity to be monitored and supports collaborative action to reduce the risk of widespread crop and pasture damage in spring.’
Adult locusts will lay eggs during May and into June, which will remain dormant over winter and hatch in spring if rainfall conditions are favourable.
Agriculture Victoria leads planning and response to locust outbreaks. Landholders and land managers also play a critical role by monitoring and managing locusts on their land to reduce impacts and damage.
‘Preventative management is the most effective approach and relies on regular monitoring,’ said Dr Finlay.
‘Early intervention such as treating hoppers before they can fly is critical. Identifying potential egg-laying sites will help plan for targeted management of the hoppers following hatching in spring.’
You can report locusts using the online locust reporting form, [www.agriculture.vic.gov.au/reportlocusts](https://agriculture.vic.gov.au/biosecurity/pest-insects-and-mites/priority-pest-insects-and-mites/plague-locusts/report-australian-plague-locusts-online), or by calling the Exotic Plant Pest Hotline on [1800 084 881](tel:1800084881).
Victoria’s strong biosecurity system helps detect and respond to seasonal threats like locust outbreaks, protecting farms, communities and the state’s food supply.
Biosecurity staff can provide practical advice, help identify locusts, explain their behaviour and guide landholders on appropriate management options.
For more information, visit [www.agriculture.vic.gov.au/locusts](http://www.agriculture.vic.gov.au/locusts)
**Media contact:** media@deeca.vic.gov.au
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
