# Australia invests $53 million to help unlock the critical minerals of the future
6 March 2026
**Joint media release with Tim Ayres, Minister for Industry and Innovation and Minister for Science.**
The Albanese Labor Government is backing a landmark new research centre with $53 million to help bolster Australia’s critical minerals refining sector.
Under the Cooperative Research Centres (CRC) program, the **Critical Metals for Critical Industries (CMCI) CRC** has been awarded $53 million to drive the development and commercialisation of new critical minerals refining technologies.
Australia is rich in the critical minerals and rare earths that are crucial for the global shift to a low carbon economy. 
Critical minerals like lithium, vanadium and cobalt are in increasing demand. This nation-building investment means Australia can bring its wealth of scientific, technological and industrial talents to unlock a bright future for the refining of these minerals onshore. 
The CMCI CRC will target its research in high-value minerals, breakthrough technologies and sustainable refining methods – creating new job and export opportunities and lifting Australia's processing for our world-class resources supply.
The CMCI CRC builds on significant investment to date by the Albanese Government in research and development in the critical minerals sector, like the Australian Critical Minerals Research and Development Hub bringing together expertise at CSIRO, ANSTO and Geoscience Australia.
The CMCI CRC will bring together 62 partners, including 43 Australian businesses, 11 research organisations and 4 peak bodies from the sector – together contributing a further $185 million to the CRC.
For more than 35 years, Australia’s world-leading CRC program has been delivering on the promise of making Australia a ‘clever country’ that turns its good luck into good industries. 
Over that time, the Australian Government has committed $6.1 billion to support the establishment of 242 CRCs and 297 CRC-Ps. Partners have committed a further $18.2 billion in support of groundbreaking research. 
The program has produced positive outcomes for industries as diverse as manufacturing, agriculture, waste and recycling, cyber security, AI, aerospace, energy, health, and mining.
Round 27 of the CRC Program is now open. You can review the guidelines and apply here: 
CRC Round 28 will be an ‘AI Accelerator’ funding round, delivering on the promise of the National AI Plan released in December 2025. 
This will make roughly $50 million available for a new AI CRC that drives the development and commercialisation of AI by businesses and researchers across Australia. It will open in 2027.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Industry and Innovation and Minister for Science Tim Ayres:**
“The Albanese Government has shown that it stands firmly with workers, researchers and firms in minerals processing across Australia. 
“Generations of Australians have enjoyed the good fortune of this continent’s rich resource endowment, but the next chapter of mineral refining requires new technologies, new industrial capabilities and new partnerships. 
“The CMCI CRC builds on a proud tradition of Australian cooperative research and development to make sure Australia has the good jobs, resilient supply chains and high-quality manufacturing firms needed to tackle national challenges. 
“Securing the future of critical minerals for our critical industries is how we realise the economic, social and environmental benefits of a Future Made in Australia, with more solar panels, wind turbines and defence equipment produced onshore.”
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Resources and Northern Australia Madeleine King:**
“Australia is at the forefront of global efforts to diversify supply chains for critical minerals and rare earths, and the materials the world will increasingly need for clean energy, defence and medical technology.
“The CMCI CRC will make a valuable contribution to our efforts to build our sovereign capabilities, and to secure jobs and the economic opportunities that flow from our diverse geology.
“The CMCI CRC will bring together industry, government and key research institutions, including the University of Western Australia, Curtin University, Macquarie University and Swinburne University, to further develop and commercialise technology for critical minerals refining.”
