<<<<<<< HEAD
# Questions Labor must answer on its Spirits destruction plan
26 May 2026 
Kerry Vincent, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport 
Concerns are growing about Labor’s plan to abandon TT-Line and scrap TasPorts.
The plan raises critical questions Tasmanians deserve answers to, including:
How does stripping TT-Line of our ships and shifting TT-Line’s debt actually help taxpayers?   
  
Labor proposes moving TT-Line’s debt into a new government entity, but the debt doesn’t disappear.  
  
Tasmanians will still be responsible for it, so how does this improve the State’s financial position rather than simply shifting the burden?
Why create a bigger, more complicated bureaucracy?
Labor wants to abolish TasPorts, a Government Business that pays dividends to Tasmanians, creating a big new bureaucracy.  
  
Why create another Government body that will slow decision-making, remove the expectation of commercial discipline and reduce the capacity of a key economic enabler?
Why is this restructure necessary, given that the challenges around the Spirits project have already been addressed?
Tasmanians deserve to understand why sweeping structural changes are needed, given the new Spirits delivery project is now on track with the ships due to be in service in October.
[ More Media Releases from Kerry Vincent ](https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/search?queries_membername_query=358256+)
=======
# Twin lamb disease
**26 May 2026**
_Dr Jeff Cave, Senior Veterinary Officer_
As we move further into winter, sheep producers may begin to see cases of pregnancy toxaemia or twin lamb disease in their ewes.
Twin lamb disease occurs because of an inadequate energy intake during the last 4 to 6 weeks of pregnancy.
During this final period of pregnancy, a ewe’s energy needs increase substantially, as she has to provide energy for both herself and her rapidly growing lamb.
Ewes that are carrying twins are particularly susceptible, hence the name.
An outbreak of twin lamb disease is often triggered by stress and environmental conditions that lead to low food intake, such as during yarding, holding off feed or severe weather.
Affected ewes usually appear dopey, blind and unresponsive. The condition may progress over several days.
The presence of affected ewes is an indication that all is not well in the remainder of the flock.
Many other ewes may also be sub-clinically affected and may progress to become further cases of twin lamb disease.
Twin lamb disease occurs because of a breakdown of body fat at a rate with which the ewe’s liver is unable to cope.
As a result, on autopsy, an affected ewe’s liver will appear swollen, yellow, crumbly and greasy.
Affected ewes can occasionally be successfully treated with an energy-rich drench, such as glycerine, provided the drench is given in the early stages of the disease.
More importantly, good-quality supplementary feeding should be provided to the ewes most at risk.
Increasing the ewe’s energy intake through appropriate ration formulation during the last 8 weeks of pregnancy can prevent twin lamb disease.
For further advice, please contact your local veterinarian or an Agriculture Victoria veterinary or animal health officer, or call the Emergency Animal Disease Hotline on [1800 675 888](tel:1800675888).
**Media contact:** media@deeca.vic.gov.au
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
