

Published: 
     Friday 6 March 2026 at 9:35 am
The Allan Labor Government is making it easier to get the Pill at the chemist without a script.
From July, women over 18 will be able to access the oral contraceptive pill at one of 850 participating Chemist Care Now pharmacies.
This change saves women time and gives them more options to get the care they need.
It also expands access for women in rural and remote areas where access to a GP is more challenging. 
The Chemist Care Now consultation with the pharmacist is free. Women will pay for the medication.
Pharmacists who want to deliver this service will be required to complete a postgraduate training module to keep women safe.
Before dispensing the medication, pharmacists must undertake a thorough consultation and outline any risks.
They will also provide comprehensive advice about other options, including long-acting reversable contraception.
Chemist Care Now is already saving Victorians time for the treatment and care of common conditions. 
Since it began as a pilot in 2023, more than 76,000 services have been delivered by pharmacists across the state.
One of those services is a resupply of an existing oral contraceptive pill prescription, which has been accessed by 17,000 women since 2023.
Over the next two years, Chemist Care Now will grow to include another 23 treatments – including the resupply of hormone replacement therapy.
Currently treatment is also available for uncomplicated UTIs, skin conditions such as shingles and travel vaccines.
To find a Chemist Care Now pharmacy, visit [betterhealth.vic.gov.au/chemist-care-now](https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/chemist-care-now)
**Quotes attributable to Premier Jacinta Allan**
_“Only Labor has new solutions to make life easier, safer and more affordable.”_
_“Accessing contraception should not be a burden for women.”_
**Quote attributable to Minister for Health Mary-Anne Thomas**
_“We’re giving women more choice and helping them save time.”_
**Quote attributable to Parliamentary Secretary for Women’s Health Kat Theophanous**
_“Supporting women to access the pill directly at their local chemist is a practical change that makes life easier and brings care closer to home.”_
[ 260306 - Get The Pill At Your Local Chemist Without A Script.pdf PDF 216.83 KB (opens in a new window) ](https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-03/260306-Get-The-Pill-At-Your-Local-Chemist-Without-A-Script.pdf)
Premier
