<<<<<<< HEAD
The Albanese Government’s Northern Australia Infrastructure Facility (NAIF) has reached a $3 billion milestone for investing in jobs, communities and opportunities across the north.
Minister for Resources and Northern Australia Madeleine King said the NAIF has delivered $3 billion in funds to proponents through draw downs for construction on projects across Northern Australia.
“NAIF is continuing to build economic opportunities across Northern Australia, creating jobs and strengthening communities across the north,” Minister King said.
“The $3 billion drawn down by project proponents underlines how NAIF has become an important catalyst for growth, jobs and opportunities for people and communities across the north, including Indigenous businesses and communities.
“NAIF capital is supporting more than 18,700 jobs and has so far secured more than $279 million supporting First Nations businesses, which strengthens communities.
“A strong north means a strong Australia.”
NAIF has committed $4.5 billion to infrastructure projects across the north, ranging from ports, agriculture, energy, social infrastructure and housing. 
Minister King said the government has also introduced legislation to Parliament to extend NAIF’s investment period to 30 June 2036, meaning the $7 billion NAIF will continue to support development across Northern Australia for another 10 years.
Assistant Minister for Northern Australia, Tourism and Pacific Islands Affairs Senator Nita Green said the NAIF legislation, currently before the Senate, will give certainty around NAIF’s ongoing role to support the north.
“This NAIF Bill means NAIF will remain a stable, reliable and accountable source of finance to support jobs, growth and vital infrastructure across Northern Australia,” Senator Green said.
Special Envoy for Northern Australia Luke Gosling said the Albanese Government understands the importance of Northern Australia to building a future made in Australia.
“NAIF has so far supported 35 projects and 40 investment decisions, including 9 projects in the Northern Territory worth around $1 billion,” Mr Gosling said.
“The Albanese Government will make sure NAIF can keep partnering with business and communities to deliver transformational projects.”
Media release
Friday 22 May 2026
Joint Release with
Nita Green 
Assistant Minister for Northern Australia, Tourism and Pacific Islands Affairs 
Luke Gosling 
Special Envoy for Northern Australia 
=======
# Know the rules when spraying with drones
**25 May 2026**
Drones, also known as remotely piloted aircraft, are increasingly being used for aerial spraying of agricultural chemicals, but operators need to be aware of the rules to keep people, animals and crops safe.
Agriculture Victoria’s Alex Perera said operators and pilots are required to be appropriately authorised by Agriculture Victoria and comply with Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) requirements.
‘There are special licence categories under CASA and Agriculture Victoria to authorise and regulate piloting, spraying and business operations using drones for aerial spraying,’ Ms Perera said.
‘Similar to any sort of licence, these ensure operators and pilots hold the appropriate training and accreditations and understand their responsibilities when using drones.
‘Victoria’s agricultural chemical laws also apply to drone operators, in the same way as other aerial spraying contractors.’
There are 2 Agriculture Victoria licences operators and pilots require:
  * Agricultural aircraft operator licence: this licence is required by the operator (owner, leaseholder or equivalent) of a drone conducting aerial spraying of agricultural chemicals, or to employ pilots to do so.
  * Pilot (chemical rating) licence: this licence must be held by any person piloting a drone for aerial spraying of agricultural chemicals.


‘As part of receiving these licences, operators must adhere to key operating conditions that are designed to ensure operations are safe for people, animals and crops,’ Ms Perera said.
‘These conditions involve the drone’s setup and operation, while others relate to product use and compliance with CASA requirements.’
Some of the conditions include:
  * Drones must weigh under 150 kg gross with equally spaced nozzles and active pump and nozzle shut-off systems fitted.
  * Spraying must be conducted in daylight hours only.
  * Drones cannot be operated autonomously (pilots must be able to intervene).
  * Only spray a product where the label or permit allows aerial or spot spraying, and follow all aerial/spot spraying directions, including water rates.
  * Follow the label/permit wind speed parameters. If none are stated, only spray when wind speed is greater than 3 km/h and less than 13 km/h at the time and place of application.


Victorian and interstate operators must comply with all applicable CASA requirements when piloting drones for aerial spraying.
Details of CASA’s current operating rules are available at [www.casa.gov.au/drones](https://www.casa.gov.au/drones)
For more information on using remotely piloted aircraft for aerial spraying, visit [Drone or remotely piloted aircraft spraying](https://agriculture.vic.gov.au/farm-management/chemicals/spraying-agricultural-chemicals/drone-or-remotely-piloted-aircraft-spraying)
**Media contact:** media@deeca.vic.gov.au
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
