

Published: 
     Wednesday 4 March 2026 at 1:20 pm
The Allan Labor Government is unlocking more school facilities for after-hours community use.
This means busy families can enjoy the activities they love closer to home – saving them time each week.
Deputy Premier and Minister for Education Ben Carroll today announced 21 new community groups are now using school facilities after hours, with 16 more on track to sign up in Term 1.
Footy and netball teams, pickleball clubs, church groups, outside hours school care and even chess clubs are making the most of the program.
Melton, Wyndham and Greater Geelong are among the local communities benefiting from the two-year pilot.
More groups are expected to sign up in the coming months, as the scheme expands to more school communities.
Labor has invested $1.4 million in the pilot program, so that public schools can be used to their full potential.
Unlocked spaces include ovals, outdoor hard-court areas, gymnasiums, assembly rooms, theatres, meeting rooms and libraries. 
Many of the 50 schools in the pilot are part of the 100 new schools delivered by Labor.
In Tarneit, Nearnung Primary School has opened its gymnasium and oval after hours to karate, basketball, soccer and other sport clubs. 
Karwan Primary School in Tarneit is also part of the pilot – and both schools were built through Labor’s record investment in public school infrastructure.
The pilot program is scheduled to run until June 2027, then an evaluation will determine if it will be expanded to other areas of Victoria.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Education Ben Carroll**
_“Labor is making life easier with common-sense solutions – instead of letting public schools sit empty out-of-hours, we’re unlocking them for families so they can enjoy the activities they love closer to home.”_
_“Not only has Labor delivered 100 new schools, we’re turning them into thriving local hubs where sports clubs, music groups, and neighbourhood activities can flourish.”_
**Quote attributable to Member for Tarneit Dylan Wight**
_“I’m proud that Labor has delivered these state-of-the-art schools in Tarneit and that entire families get to benefit. These are just two of the five built in our community since 2020.”_
[ 260304 - Families Save Time Using School Facilities Close To Home.pdf PDF 214.82 KB (opens in a new window) ](
Education
