Search ABS
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (5 March 2026), [Strong growth in services lifts household spending]( ABS Website, accessed 5 March 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, March 5). _Strong growth in services lifts household spending_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "Strong growth in services lifts household spending." _ABS_ , 5 March 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _Strong growth in services lifts household spending_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 March 5 [cited 2026 March 5]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _Strong growth in services lifts household spending_ , ABS, viewed 5 March 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Media Release
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (5 March 2026), [Strong growth in services lifts household spending]( ABS Website, accessed 5 March 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, March 5). _Strong growth in services lifts household spending_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "Strong growth in services lifts household spending." _ABS_ , 5 March 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _Strong growth in services lifts household spending_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 March 5 [cited 2026 March 5]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _Strong growth in services lifts household spending_ , ABS, viewed 5 March 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Released
5/03/2026
Source
[Monthly Household Spending Indicator, January 2026](
Release date and time
05/03/2026 11:30am AEDT
Household spending rose 0.3 per cent in January 2026, according to seasonally adjusted figures released today by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS).
This follows a fall of 0.5 per cent in December and a rise of 1.0 per cent in November. 
Household spending over the year remains high in nominal terms, up 4.6 per cent compared to January 2025.
Tom Lay, ABS head of business statistics, said: ‘Household spending returned to growth in January, rising in five of the nine spending categories.’
Spending on services drove the rise, up 1.0 per cent driven by Other services including Digital streaming services and Travel agency and tour services. Health services also contributed with higher spending on dental services. 
This was partly offset by a fall in spending on goods, down 0.3 per cent, driven by drops in Purchase of motor vehicles and Recreation and Culture goods. 
‘Essential spending rose 0.8 per cent and was driven by health services and spending on motor vehicle repairs and maintenance,’ Mr Lay said. 
‘Discretionary spending was up 0.1 per cent this month, driven by spending on Air transport, Personal effects and Recreational and cultural services.’
Graph Table
    * Download table as CSV
    * Download table as XLSX
    * Download graph as PNG image
    * Download graph as JPG image
    * Download graph as SVG Vector image


Household spending, percentage change from previous month, current price, seasonally adjusted
Bar chart with 2 data series.
View as data table, Household spending, percentage change from previous month, current price, seasonally adjusted
The chart has 1 X axis displaying . 
The chart has 1 Y axis displaying values. Data ranges from -0.8 to 1.8.
Created with Highcharts 10.2.1GoodsServicesAug-25Sep-25Oct-25Nov-25Dec-25Jan-26012Household spending, percentage change from previous month, current price, seasonally adjusted
End of interactive chart.
Hide lower priority columns
Household spending, percentage change from previous month, current price, seasonally adjusted | Goods | Services  
---|---|---  
Aug-25 | -0.4 | 0.4  
Sep-25 | 0.7 | -0.1  
Oct-25 | 1.8 | 0.9  
Nov-25 | 1.0 | 1.0  
Dec-25 | -0.8 | -0.2  
Jan-26 | -0.3 | 1.0  
```
 Household spending, percentage change from previous month, current price, seasonally adjusted
```
```
["","Goods","Services"]
```
```
[["Aug-25","Sep-25","Oct-25","Nov-25","Dec-25","Jan-26"],[[-0.4],[0.7],[1.8],[1],[-0.8],[-0.3]],[[0.4],[-0.1],[0.9],[1],[-0.2],[1]]]
```
```
[]
```
```
[{"value":"0","axis_id":"0","axis_title":"","axis_units":"","tooltip_units":"","table_units":"","axis_min":null,"axis_max":null,"tick_interval":null,"precision":"-1","data_unit_prefix":"","data_unit_suffix":"","reverse_axis":false}]
```
```
[{"value":"0","axis_id":"0","axis_title":"","axis_units":"","tooltip_units":"","table_units":"","axis_min":null,"axis_max":null,"tick_interval":null,"precision":"1","data_unit_prefix":"","data_unit_suffix":"","reverse_axis":false}]
```

Household spending rose in five out of the eight states and territories in January. Tasmania recorded the largest rise in percentage terms, while New South Wales saw the biggest increase in dollar terms.
Tasmania (+0.6 per cent) recorded the largest monthly rise, followed by New South Wales and Victoria (both +0.5 per cent). The Northern Territory recorded the largest monthly fall, down 2.3 per cent.
  * This indicator uses aggregated and de-identified card transactions from banks, supermarket scanner data, and motor vehicle sales data from the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries and Electric Vehicle Council.
  * The indicator includes nine of the thirteen key divisions which are classified according to the 
  * Take care when comparing Household Spending Indicator estimates with other ABS products. See the [Methodology]( page for further information.
  * For any media requests, email 
  * Please attribute the 'Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS)' when using our data.
  * Explore our 
  * Information on how the ABS will release market sensitive releases [during a website or API outage](


[ Back to top of the page ]( "Back to top")
