<<<<<<< HEAD
Search keyword
Search
#  Record renewables drive down bills
26 May 2026
Today’s release of the final Default Market Offer (DMO) shows price reductions for households across every regulated region, and even bigger reductions for small businesses, as our plan for more cheaper cleaner energy and a better deal for households helps shield households from global energy pain.
Household standing offer time of use prices will fall by between 1.1 per cent and 10.7 per cent across South Australia, NSW and south-east Queensland. Flat rate offers are down everywhere between 3.4 per cent and 7.2 percent, except in South Australia where there is an increase of 1.4 per cent.
Small business standing offer time of use prices are set to fall by between 12.1 per cent and 20.9 per cent, and flat rate offers to decrease between 6.8 per cent and 11.3 per cent across every regulated region.
The independent Australian Energy Regulator sets the DMO as a benchmark for residential and small business electricity bills in New South Wales, south-east Queensland and South Australia.
It is no coincidence that energy price reductions have happened as Australia’s main energy grids clocked over 50 per cent renewable generation for the first time at the end of last year, pushing wholesale energy prices down which is beginning to flow through to bills.
The Albanese Government’s roll out of more renewables and storage is reducing reliance on unreliable coal and putting downward pressure on bills.
The 2026-27 determination is the first under the Albanese Government’s reformed DMO framework designed to better protect customers and deliver a fairer deal for consumers.
The Government’s changes mean the DMO is being rebalanced so households and small businesses on standing offers pay a price that better reflects the actual costs of supplying electricity, making sure people on default plans are not paying for unnecessary retailer overheads. The DMO also serves as a benchmark price for retail market offers to compare against.
The Government has implemented a range of consumer rule changes which will further help protect consumers. From 1 July 2026, new rules will:
• Make sure plan benefits last the whole contract  
• Stop sneaky price hikes during fixed contracts  
• Ban unfair fees and dodgy discounts  
• Limit price increases to once per year
These changes will clamp down on retailers who do the wrong thing, by luring customers in with cheap deals, only to move them onto higher cost plans or impose hidden fees and charges. Households and small businesses alike will be better off under these changes. 
They are part of the Albanese Government’s broader plan to deliver cheaper, cleaner, more reliable energy by getting more renewables and storage into the grid, backed by stronger consumer protections, insulating Australians from global energy market volatility.
The Coalition left Australians with an energy policy mess and opposed cost of living relief when people needed help.
The Albanese Government is delivering practical reform that helps households now and builds a better energy system for the future.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Climate Change and Energy, Chris Bowen:**
“Our plan has two parts: More cheaper, cleaner energy and a better deal for households - and that’s what we’re delivering with the latest regulator’s benchmark for energy bills showing declines across households and businesses.
“We’ve got the best sun and wind in the world, and we’re using our sovereign renewables to shield our grid from global energy volatility and to bring down your energy bills.
“The Coalition's plan is to stop renewables and household batteries, sweat coal, and leave Australians to pick up the bill of global shocks.
“We know energy bills are still too high – because when coal breaks down, your bill goes up – but this news shows steady progress.” 
**Background**
A flat rate offer is when customers are charged the same price for electricity at all times, while time of use is when the price of electricity changes depending on what time you use electricity.
_Figure 1. DMO final determination, residential flat rate_
State  | Distribution network  | DMO 8 2026-27 ($)  | DMO 7 2025-26 ($)  | Change from 2025 (%, y-o-y)  | Change($)   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
NSW  | Ausgrid  | $1,899  | 1,965  | -3.4  | - $66   
Endeavour  | $2,328  | 2,411  | -3.4  | -$83   
Essential  | $2,604  | 2,741  | -5.0  | -$137   
SE QLD  | Energex  | $1,988  | 2,143  | -7.2  | -$155   
SA  | SAPN  | $2,334  | 2,301  | 1.4  | $33   
_Figure 2. DMO final determination, residential time of use_
State  | Distribution network  | DMO 8 2026-27 ($)  | DMO 7 2025-26 ($)  | Change from 2025 (%, y-o-y)  |  Change ($)   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
NSW  | Ausgrid  | $1,893  | 1,965  | -3.7  | -$72   
Endeavour  | $2,320  | 2,411  | -3.8  | -$91   
Essential  | $2,530  | 2,741  | -7.7  | -$211   
SE QLD  | Energex  | $1,914  | 2,143  | -10.7  | -$229   
SA  | SAPN  | $2,276  | 2,301  | -1.1  | -$25   
_Figure 3. DMO final determination, small business flat rate_
State  | Distribution network  | DMO 8 2026-27 ($)  | DMO 7 2025-26 ($)  | Change from 2025 (%, y-o-y)  |  Change ($)   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
NSW  | Ausgrid  | $4,523  | 4,977  | -9.1  | -$454   
Endeavour  | $4,343  | 4,775  | -9.0  | -$432   
Essential  | $5,517  | 6,222  | -11.3  | -$705   
SE QLD  | Energex  | $3,849  | 4,294  | -10.4  | -$445   
SA  | SAPN  | $5,162  | 5,541  | -6.8  | -$379   
_Figure 4. DMO final determination, small business time of use_
State  | Distribution network  | DMO 8 2026-27 ($)  | DMO 7 2025-26 ($)  | Change from 2025 (%, y-o-y)  | Change ($)   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
NSW  | Ausgrid  | $4,450  | 4,977  | -10.6  | -$527   
Endeavour  | $4,326  | 4,775  | -9.4  | -$449   
Essential  | $4,919  | 6,222  | -20.9  | -$1303   
SE QLD  | Energex  | $3,693  | 4,294  | -14.0  | -$601   
SA  | SAPN  | $4,868  | 5,541  | -12.1  | -$673   
  

=======
# Securing more fertiliser for Australian farmers 
27 May 2026
Joint media release with the Minister for Trade and Tourism, Don Farrell and Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Julie Collins.
The Albanese Labor Government continues to secure essential fuel and fertiliser to keep Australian agriculture moving, with around 80,250 tonnes of additional urea now locked in through the Government's $7.5 billion Fuel and Fertiliser Security Facility.
Through Export Finance Australia, the Government has partnered with Incitec Pivot to support the purchase of two shipments of urea from Indonesia.
One of these shipments is part of the 250,000 tonnes of agricultural grade urea locked in through PT Pupuk, secured by the Albanese Labor Government and Incitec Pivot.
Six shipments, and over 209,000 tonnes of urea have now been secured through the Government's Fuel and Fertiliser Security Facility, with the first of these shipments expected to arrive in Australia in the coming weeks.
Securing more fertiliser is part of the Albanese Labor Government's actions to help Australia's agriculture industry manage the impacts of the conflict in the Middle East.
This will provide greater certainty for farmers as they make planting and growing decisions for the current and upcoming growing seasons.
It will also help keep Australia's food production system moving and bolster domestic food security, as well as food security for trading partners who rely on our agriculture exports, particularly in the Indo-Pacific.
Export Finance Australia continues to progress discussions with other fertiliser companies to secure more shipments of fertiliser.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Trade and Tourism, Don Farrell:**
"The Albanese Labor Government will always support Australian farmers, and the many jobs and communities this vital sector sustains across the country.
"Our government is securing essential goods to keep Australia moving.
"We know how critical the agriculture industry is to Australia's economy and are working closely with industry and peak bodies to give the sector the confidence it needs to keep planning for the future."
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Julie Collins:**
"Keeping Australia's food production system moving is critical, which is why we've been working around the clock to help secure the critical inputs our farmers and producers need, including fuel and fertiliser.
"Supporting the purchase of additional fertiliser shipments is about getting more fertiliser into Australia at a time of global uncertainty, helping to provide our farmers and producers with confidence for the future.
"The additional fertiliser we've secured from Indonesia, in partnership with industry, is the result of our Government's careful and considered work to strengthen Australia's relationship with Indonesia.
"The Albanese Labor Government will continue working with our farmers and producers to help them manage the disruption from the war in the Middle East, which is impacting globally."
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Industry and Innovation and Minister for Science, Tim Ayres:**
"We know that the war in the Middle East continues to have impacts on Australian farmers and businesses – that's why we're so focused on securing the vital products Australians need.
"Keeping fertiliser flowing, particularly urea, is critical to the agricultural community and all Australians.
"We are grateful to industry and our international partners for working so collaboratively through this conflict."
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
