Ministerial media release
# Final plan for Moore Park South delivers new park and 12-hole golf course for Sydney 

Published:
    7 May 2026 

Released by:
    Minister for Planning and Public Spaces
* * *
Mums, dads and young people from across Sydney are a step closer to being able to enjoy a brand-new park with sports fields, courts, outdoor fitness equipment, a nature playground, shaded picnic spaces with barbecues and more.
The Minns Labor Government has today released the final plan for the new 20-hectare park and 12‑hole public golf course at Moore Park South, based on extensive feedback from the local community, sporting groups and councils.
The plan, which is supported by a $50 million investment from the Minns Labor Government, will deliver a great new public open space for one of the most densely populated areas in Australia, with the population within 5km of the new parkland projected to rise to almost 790,000 by 2041.
The community surrounding Sydney’s newest park will be able to enjoy new sporting and community facilities, including:
  * new pathways for running, walking and cycling
  * a fenced off-leash dog area
  * a full-size community sports field, multi-purpose sports courts and outdoor fitness equipment
  * large areas of parkland for people to picnic and relax
  * new amenities such as toilets, park furniture, space for food kiosks and lighting
  * a reimagined golf offering designed in consultation with Sydney’s golf community.


The final design responds to feedback received during extensive community consultation and site analysis, including:
  * increasing the golf offering from 9 holes to a 45 par 12-hole golf course, without reducing the area for the new park
  * improving connectivity and recreation by delivering more entry points and pathways which link to the park’s perimeter loop
  * minimising tree loss by relocating the sports field
  * relocating the nature playground to a more centralised area of the park.


Golf which caters to all ages and abilities will remain an important part of Moore Park South.
The reconfigured 12-hole golf course will be delivered as part of the new golf offer at Moore Park South. This change reflects valuable feedback from golfers and the broader community on the draft Establishment Plan, with the length of the reconfigured course increased from 9 to 12 holes.
Working closely with a respected golf architect and stakeholders, the new 45-par course has been designed to be challenging and utilise existing fairways, while retaining a finish at the Golf House.
The course will also be supported by:
  * an expanded driving range with up to 90 bays
  * an 18‑hole mini‑golf course
  * putting and chipping greens.


Works to establish the new park will commence from July 2026, with access for the community available immediately. For the most substantial upgrades and additions to the park, construction is expected to be completed by 2028.
Throughout the transition the public will be kept updated on changes to parkland access and the phased opening of parkland recreation facilities.
Importantly, a minimum of nine holes will be available to play until the 12-hole course is opened in 2027.
Public consultation on the draft Establishment Plan was completed between 28 October and 24 November 2025.
The final plan was also informed by the results of soil testing which found common contaminants deep underground which will not impact Moore Park South’s future use as a parkland. The findings are to the results of testing at the now popular Sydney Park in Alexandria.
This is part of the Minns Labor Government’s plan to build a better NSW, supporting families, young people and downsizers with the great public spaces and community facilities to exercise, gather and relax.
To see the final plan or read the ‘What we heard’ report visit 
**Minister for Planning and Public Spaces Paul Scully said:**
“This plan delivers quality open space which will act as a backyard for thousands of people in one of Australia’s most densely populated communities.
“We’re re-imagining Moore Park South and delivering a new 20-hectare park with everything from a new community sporting field, walking, running and cycling paths and trails and relaxation and picnic areas.
“Alongside the great new open spaces we’ve worked with Golf NSW and a golf architect to increase the golf offering from 9 holes to a 12-hole golf course.
“Moore Park South will have something from everyone whether people want to play sport, enjoy time outdoors, walk the dog or play a round of golf.”
**Greater Sydney Parklands Chief Executive Joshua French said:**
"Community and stakeholder feedback has been central to decision-making; ensuring the new public park and golf offer provides for a range of activities and users.”
“Over the next three years, we'll be focused on delivering a park that is welcoming, accessible and well-managed, with facilities that respond community needs, now and into the future."
**CEO Golf NSW Stuart Fraser said:**
“Golf NSW acknowledges it has been consulted by the NSW Government in determining the future of Moore Park Golf Club and more specifically the course layout.
“The preference has always been to retain 18 holes however this was physically not possible.
“Internationally recognised Golf Course Architect, Harley Kruse, has however configured a 12-hole layout that would be practical and still offer a challenge for golfers of all abilities.”
[downloadDownload as PDF](https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/final-plan-for-moore-park-south-delivers-new-park-and-12-hole-golf-course-for-sydney)[printPrint this page](https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/final-plan-for-moore-park-south-delivers-new-park-and-12-hole-golf-course-for-sydney)[shareShare this page](https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/final-plan-for-moore-park-south-delivers-new-park-and-12-hole-golf-course-for-sydney)
[ Top of page north ](https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/final-plan-for-moore-park-south-delivers-new-park-and-12-hole-golf-course-for-sydney#top)
