# Tasmania leads the nation in business confidence and conditions 
11 March 2026 
Jeremy Rockliff, Premier 
Eric Abetz, Treasurer 
Tasmania has topped the nation for business confidence and conditions.
The latest NAB Business Survey shows Tasmania topping business confidence since October 2025, and in the top two for conditions since November 2025.
Premier Jeremy Rockliff welcomed the significant results, saying it backed in Tasmania posting the highest growth in private investment according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics.
“Tasmania is entering a new era of opportunity - our economy is strong, we are slashing red tape and private investment is nation-leading,” the Premier said.
“We have a $40 billion 10-year infrastructure pipeline.
“Generational opportunities, like Marinus Link and the Macquarie Point Multipurpose Stadium, drive confidence for Tasmania’s future.
“Ensuring we have the right size and structure public service through transformational reforms like Building Tasmania will play a significant role in keeping Tasmania at the top."
Treasurer Eric Abetz said our Liberal Government is delivering the economic conditions needed for small businesses to invest and grow.
“We are taking action to make liquor licencing easier, to make granny flats bigger and to champion Buy Local - and all of this has a positive impact," the Treasurer said.
“Under our Government, Tasmania is the best place to live, work, raise a family, invest and do business.”
[ More Media Releases from Jeremy Rockliff ](https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/search?queries_membername_query=347514+)
