# Test rig shows no need to jump at shadows
10 March 2026 
Eric Abetz, Minister for Macquarie Point Urban Renewal 
The roof test rig for the Macquarie Point Multipurpose Stadium has been successfully constructed, demonstrating how the structure and materials will work together to let light in while mitigating shadows.
Constructed by local Tasmanian firm BlackCap Group, and developed in close consultation with Cricket Tasmania and Cricket Australia, this is an exciting milestone for the roof design.
Minister for Macquarie Point Urban Renewal, Eric Abetz, said the Tasmanian Government was pleased to see this important component come to life.
“Our roofed stadium has been the talk of the sporting world,” Minister Abetz said.
“The ability for year-round play and entertainment is groundbreaking.
“This structure demonstrates the rigour that is informing design and delivery, and, importantly, the effectiveness of our roof in creating an optimal playing environment.
“Well done to local Tasmanian firm BlackCap Group and to Macquarie Point Development Corporation for their leadership.
“I also want to acknowledge and thank Cricket Tasmania for its commitment and engagement to deliver this significant project. Cricket’s input and close collaboration will help set Tasmania apart as a unique cricket destination.
“Hobart might be the second driest capital city in the nation, but ironically, we have the most rain days.
“We saw it on the mainland during the last Ashes series, rain and professional sport are not always friends.
“Tasmania is entering a new era of opportunity, and the stadium roof means we’re going to have access to a world-class pitch 365 days of the year.
“Our Liberal Government will continue to deliver for Tasmanians, and this innovative world-leading project is at the forefront of what we do best.”
[ More Media Releases from Eric Abetz ](https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/search?queries_membername_query=347357+)
