# Direct flight from Canberra touches down in Launceston
6 May 2026 
Jane Howlett, Minister for Tourism, Hospitality and Events 
The first direct flight between Canberra and Launceston, operated by Link Airways, landed at Launceston Airport today.  
  
The Tasmanian Government is delivering for our tourism industry, with the flight marking Link Airways’ first time flying into Launceston, commencing a year-round service that will operate four times a week on Sunday, Monday, Wednesday and Friday.  
  
Minister for Tourism, Hospitality and Events, Jane Howlett, said the inaugural flight will deliver significant economic benefits and help drive new visitation to Tasmania.  
  
“Launceston is now directly connected to the nation’s capital, making travel simpler for Tasmanians and opening the door for more visitors to experience Northern Tasmania,” Minister Howlett said.  
  
“This year-round service strengthens access and reflects a clear demand for more direct connections to our State.  
  
“With about 60,000 visitors travelling from the ACT each year, this route makes it easier than ever for them to choose Northern Tasmania as part of their journey.”  
  
The new route was secured in partnership with Link Airways and the Launceston Airport, with support from the Tasmanian Government’s $5 million Aviation Attraction Fund.  
  
“Our Government’s Aviation Attraction Fund is leveraging opportunities like this new direct flight to support our tourism industry, increase trade opportunities and grow our economy,” Minister Howlett said.  
  
“We are delivering for Tasmania with a strong visitor economy that supports one in six Tasmanian jobs.”  
  
Sarah Kingston Clark, CEO Tourism Tasmania, said the new service represents strong visitor demand for Tasmania.  
  
"A new year-round service from Link Airways is a show of confidence in what Tasmania, and our northern region, has to offer,” Mrs Kingston Clark said.  
  
“A strong events calendar, a UNESCO City of Gastronomy, Tamar Valley, Cradle Mountain, Derby to name a few with ACT visitors having a direct way in."  
  
Flights are on sale now and can be booked directly on Link Airways’ website or via travel agents.
[ More Media Releases from Jane Howlett ](https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/search?queries_membername_query=347369+)
