# Dorrigo’s iconic history celebrated with state heritage honour
14 May 2026 
Department media release Heritage News and media releases
More than a century after first opening its doors to the Dorrigo community, the much-loved Heritage Hotel Dorrigo has been listed on the NSW State Heritage Register.
Built in 1925 by Greek migrant Michael Feros, the striking Federation-style hotel is a testament to the contribution of migrant communities to the social, cultural and economic life of country towns.
The listing celebrates 101 years of stewardship from the Feros family, with the hotel standing as a rare and enduring example of continuous ownership in regional NSW.
The hotel has served as a backdrop for the local community for 100 years, hosting wedding receptions, dances, fundraisers and more. It welcomed the Greek Consul General to Australia in 1929 and hosted a ball in 1941 to raise money for the Greek War Fund during World War II.
The hotel remains proudly owned and operated by Michael’s son, Peter Feros, and Peter’s wife, Lois, continuing a family tradition of hospitality that has connected generations of locals and visitors.
As one of the few pubs in NSW run by the same family for more than a century, the hotel stands as a living example of migrant enterprise and family stewardship in regional Australia.
The State Heritage Register listing covers the main hotel building and rear motel, with site-specific exemptions in place to support its continued use as a hotel, motel, bar and bistro, ensuring the property remains both protected and practical for modern use.
The Minns Labor Government is delivering on its commitment to recognise, protect, preserve and promote the places, people and events which have contributed to the state’s rich heritage.
## Minister for Heritage Penny Sharpe said:
“For more than a century, the Feros family has opened their doors to Dorrigo, helping shape the heart of this town and its people.
“The Heritage Hotel’s story reflects the spirit of resilience and belonging that defines regional NSW. It’s much more than bricks and mortar. It’s a living story of migration, hard work and community.
“By listing the Heritage Hotel on the State Heritage Register, we’re honouring that legacy and ensuring the stories told within these walls will never be forgotten.”
Contact us
**Media**
Email: 
