Note
Joint media release with
Anthony Albanese MP  
Prime Minister of Australia
Anika Wells MP  
Minister for Communication  
Minister for Sport
The Albanese Government is taking the next step to ensure Australian journalism is sustainable now and into the future.
Draft legislation to establish a News Bargaining Incentive (NBI) is now available for consultation.
The proposed legislation addresses a limitation in the long‑standing News Media Bargaining Code which allows digital platforms to avoid their obligations by removing news from their service.
Under the Incentive, digital platforms operating significant social media or search services are encouraged to do commercial deals with eligible news publishers as the preferred model, with generous offsets provided to reduce their liabilities.
Platforms who elect not to do commercial deals with news publishers will need to pay a charge as a proportion of their revenue, with any charges collected to be distributed back to the news media sector.
Consultation on draft legislation is open until 18 May 2026. Draft legislation is available on the [Treasury website](https://consult.treasury.gov.au/c2026-763377).
The Government is also developing the distribution mechanism to return any money collected by the NBI back to the Australian news media sector to support the employment and critical work of journalists.
A strong and diverse news sector is vital for a healthy democracy, and the Albanese Government is committed to ensuring a viable future for public interest journalism.
Stakeholders can have their say on how any money raised is distributed to the media sector.
The consultation paper is available on the 
## Quotes attributable to the Prime Minister Anthony Albanese
“Journalists are the lifeblood of Australia’s media sector, playing a vital role in keeping communities informed about the news that matters to them.
“Local news matters to local communities and these stories can’t be told without Australian journalists.
“My Government will always back Australian journalists and Australian news.”
## Quotes attributable to the Minister for Communications and Minister for Sport, Anika Wells
“There has never been a more important time to ensure journalists are supported to keep Australians up to date with the latest and most accurate news.
“This is part of the Albanese Government’s work to make sure our laws keep pace with changing digital technologies and deliver outcomes that are in the interest of the Australian public.”
## Quotes attributable to the Assistant Treasurer and Minister for Financial Services, Daniel Mulino
“In an increasingly uncertain world, it is crucial Australians are able to get news seen through Australian eyes and with an Australian perspective.
“This remains the case whether it is news from overseas or from just around the corner, being delivered through traditional or innovative ways.
“Large digital platforms have an important role to play in providing access to news for all Australians and being partners in innovation, we would like to see them work with the news media on commercial deals with benefit to both parties.”
