[News](https://www.imf.org/en/news)
#### Related Links
  * [Transcripts](https://www.imf.org/en/news/searchnews#sortCriteria=%40imfdate%20descending&type=transcripts "Transcripts")


#### IMF Press center
The IMF Press Center is a password-protected site for working journalists.
[PRESS CENTER](http://presscenter.imf.org)
##### Email notification sign-up
[Sign up to receive free e-mail notices when new series and/or country items are posted on the IMF website.](https://www.imf.org/en/email-subscription/index)
[Modify your profile](https://www.imf.org/en/email-subscription/login)
  
  

## Press Briefing Transcript: Western Hemisphere Department, Spring Meetings 2026
April 17, 2026
**Speakers:**
NIGEL CHALK**,** Director of Western Hemisphere Department, IMF
ANA CORBACHO, Deputy Director Western Hemisphere Department, IMF
LUIS CUBEDDU, Deputy Director Western Hemisphere Department, IMF
DORA IAKOVA, Deputy Director Western Hemisphere Department, IMF
**Moderator:**
JULIE ZIEGLER, Senior Communications Officer, IMF
**Transcript:**
MS. ZIEGLER: Welcome to the press briefing on the Regional Economic Outlook for the Western Hemisphere. 
And just to flag that a blog on this topic was published moments ago on IMF.org. So, I hope you can check it out. 
I am Julie Ziegler with the Communications Department. Let me start by introducing our panel today. 
To my immediate left is Nigel Chalk, who is Director of the Western Hemisphere Department. He is joined by Ana Corbacho, Luis Cubeddu, and Dora Iakova, all of whom are Deputy Directors in the Western Hemisphere Department. 
So let me now turn it over to Nigel for opening remarks and updates. Nigel, the floor is yours. 
MR. CHALK: Thank you, Julie. 
So, I wanted to flag, as you've seen, probably, we put out a press release on the Fund's recognition of the government of Venezuela. The Managing Director in her IMFC press conference has also discussed that. That's an important development for the Fund, and we'll be working closely with the Venezuelan authorities in the coming months, days, months, weeks.
Secondly, as Julie mentioned, there's a blog. In that blog, we're going to talk a little bit about the implications of the Middle East war on the Western Hemisphere region as a whole. And we're trying to give a sense of the near-term prospects and the policy priorities in this current very difficult, complicated circumstances that we face in the global economy. 
Let me start by stepping back a bit and describing how we were thinking about the region prior to the conflict. The Western Hemisphere region had started 2026 on a solid footing. For most countries, growth was close to potential, output gaps were largely closed, and inflation was at target. The region had been able to adapt last year to the shift in U.S. tariff policy. And indeed, we've seen in the region, export growth has actually been accelerating. Unfortunately, the region still has relatively weak productivity growth, which means the level of growth in the economy was not what we would like to see. But on the plus side, we were seeing countries making progress in tackling some of the distortions and bottlenecks that their economies face. 
However, not surprisingly, the war in the Middle East has changed this narrative. We anticipate that the effects of this changing global environment will be felt very differently across this region. As the Managing Director has said, the scale and the nature of the impact will be highly dependent on the duration of the conflict and its associated disruptions. 
You won't be surprised to learn that oil producers in the region, which there's a number of them, will benefit from the higher energy prices. But I think we want to emphasize that even in these countries, we shouldn't lose sight of the fact that while there may be macroeconomic gains, the most vulnerable citizens will be hard hit by higher energy prices. And as we've been discussed in other places, food prices potentially could be the next leg of that pressure on lower-income households. 
Oil produce is one story in the region. It's not the whole story for the Western Hemisphere. We are very concerned that tourism-dependent Caribbean economies are likely to be the hardest hit. Their debt is high, their fiscal space is small, and they're quite large net energy importers, despite investments that have been made in these countries in shifting towards renewables. We also don't know what the potential impact of this war and the shifts in energy prices may have on flights and on tourism. And so, that's another thing that we're keeping an eye on. 
Central America is also exposed to this global shock. They import energy, and they face limits, and for some of the countries, quite binding limits on the fiscal space and the policy space that they have to undertake measures to cushion the impact of this shock. 
While the economic activity impact across the region will vary quite a lot, for all of the countries inflation will be higher. As always, when we see a burst of inflation, the greatest hardship of that inflation will be borne by the families that can least afford it. Also, after successfully controlling inflation as we emerge from the pandemic over the past few years, we're going to have the region's central banks that are now being called upon once again to underpin price stability. 
There, I think there's some encouraging news. Many central banks in the region have solidified their credibility over the past 20 years, and they've demonstrated this with well-anchored inflation expectations, which will make the effort to keep inflation and inflation expectations at their target range much easier. We're confident the central banks in the region will step up to this new challenge. 
Our message to the fiscal authorities of the region is to resist the political pressure to either contain or delay the inevitable food and fuel price increases that are coming. This is especially true in South America where many countries have, in the past few years, taken courageous decisions to replace untargeted fuel and food subsidies with well-designed safety nets. They should use those safety nets now. It's imperative also that these gains in allowing market pricing to feed through, particularly into fuel and energy, are preserved. We do think that fiscal support can be provided, but it should be used judiciously, and it should be focused on the vulnerable families, farmers, and businesses that are most affected by this shock. 
And finally, I want to assure you that at the IMF, we are here to help all of our members. That may be providing analytical inputs to their decision-making and their policy advice, we're sharing insights from what other countries are doing to contend with the economic implications of the war, and these Spring Meetings have been a good venue for countries to get together and swap notes, and compare, and we're deploying the Fund's ample lending capacity to help the region. 
And with that, let me turn it back to Julie. Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Thank you, Nigel. So, before we take your questions, I will quickly share some housekeeping items. 
First, just a reminder that this is on the record. And second, if you have any questions, please raise your hand either in the room or online. And if I call on you, please state your name and affiliation before you ask your question. And third, for those of you joining us online, please do make sure your camera is on. I will not be able to take your question unless we can see you. And finally, please keep your questions brief. We will try to get to as many questions as possible in the time we have. 
And I'd like to begin with questions on the region. And by this, I mean questions on groups of countries such as Latin America as a whole, the Caribbean, or the entire Western Hemisphere. And then we will come to country-specific questions after that. 
So may I start? Do we have any questions on the region, please? Yes, the gentleman on the end out there. Thank you. 
QUESTIONER: Hi, thanks. Regarding widespread inflation expectations in the region, I just wanted to ask you about what do you think are going to be the main challenges, main recommendations, especially for the countries that have narrower fiscal buffers right now. Thanks. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Thanks. Any other questions on the region? Okay.
QUESTIONER: Good afternoon. This is a Caribbean-centric question. With all of what is happening, you mentioned a lot of the tourism-dependent countries in the region are likely to be hit. What can those countries do in the short term to cushion the impact, especially for its citizens, in light of the fact that inflation is likely going to be kicking in at some point and the fuel prices have already skyrocketed? Thanks. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay, let's go ahead. 
QUESTIONER: [Inaudible] Amid all the economic downturn that is happening right now, do you expect a migration wave toward the United States as a realistic second-round effect? Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay, let's take those. 
MR. CHALK: Okay. So, on Latin America, I think there was two parts to that question. One on the fiscal, sort of limited fiscal buffers, and also on inflation expectations. So, on inflation expectations, I think the story and the news for the region is actually quite positive. We've done some analytical work that shows very important gains in anchoring inflation expectations in the region. So, while we know after the shock that near-term inflation expectations will rise, we do see longer-term, even two to three years out, inflation expectations quite firmly anchored at the targets for the countries that are inflation targeting. 
What that means is that the cost for disinflation for those countries is far less than it would be if they had to re-anchor inflation expectations. So, while they may need to raise policy rates or they may need to not reduce policy rates, depending on the cyclical position of the country, in order to anchor those expectations. And a lot of that will depend on how, as I said, how long this war lasts and the size of the disruption. And as you can see today, it changes from day to day. Our sense is that the cost, the economic cost of jobs into activity of bringing inflation back to target, is far less in the region than it was several years ago because of the credibility of the central banks and because of this anchoring of inflation. So that's relative relatively good news, I think.
On the monetary side, I think we're quite receptive to the idea of waiting and seeing how this shock evolves. We don't know the amplitude, the duration, and the size of this inflationary shock coming from outside. I think it's a very reasonable strategy for central banks to wait. There's no hurry to do anything right now, and to wait and see how this evolves. 
On the fiscal buffers, yes, I think that's less of a positive story. We know that the COVID raised public debt significantly across the region in pretty much every country as those economies were forced to respond to the COVID shock. There was some effort to bring back fiscal positions to where they were, but there's a legacy of that higher debt. And so, as we go into this next shock, there is less room for maneuver for many countries. They have fewer fiscal buffers. I think what that means is that the priority really has to be on being careful with those fiscal resources and targeting those fiscal resources to where they can have the most impact. As I mentioned in the opening remarks, supporting firms, farmers, and individuals who are most hard hit by these shifts, particularly in energy prices.
For the Caribbean, what can countries do to cushion the impact? I think several countries in the Caribbean already have mechanisms in place that smooth energy price increases so that not all of that energy price increase is passed through immediately. That can buy a little bit of time in terms of how that feeds into the economy. But what we don't want is for countries to permanently increase subsidies to energy. Those subsidies are untargeted; they benefit the rich more than they benefit the poor. And in the current environment, you can start that process, maybe with oil prices at $90, but you don't know what oil prices will be three months from now. So, the size of the subsidies you may be creating over time could be quite large and quite unpredictable. So, we think trying to let the market mechanism work, that will allow individuals and firms to make decisions to reduce their demand for energy, and that in turn will put less pressure on the economy as we let the market system work.
In terms of the migration to the U.S. we don't see a downturn, like, for example, in Central America. The economies are doing quite well. We don't see a downturn in the region. We actually feel this region is quite aside, particularly aside from the Caribbean. But the region more broadly is quite well placed with decent fundamentals and some space, some fiscal space. So, we don't see an economic downturn in our forecasts. We don't think that's going to precipitate a large migration wave. There are important issues related to migration for particular countries. We can think of Venezuela and Haiti, but I don't think that sort of a sudden push of migration flowing Northwards seems likely at this point. Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Thank you. So, let's close out. Any other questions on the region? Go ahead. In the back, please. 
QUESTIONER: Hi. IMF confirms that the macroeconomic policy fundamentals are outweighing the tariffs and the driving of growth. So, we see some things that pressure the region, like AI tools and skills gap, versus Asia-Pacific. We believe that these mechanisms need to be reviewed because the flow of resilience, it will shock the region. And we believe that the transference of knowledge and skill centers shouldn't be weighted in terms of $500 billion. I think that we can pressure on how to tokenize data. 
QUESTIONER: [--] that tokenization could be the thing. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Sorry, excuse me. Do you have a question? 
QUESTIONER: Yeah. What are going to be the policies that will really believe for the IMF that you will be standing shock after shock after shock? 
MS. ZEIGLER: Anything else before we move on to countries? 
MR. CHALK: Okay, so very quickly. I mean, we've talked a little bit about having a good fiscal institutional framework, having a good monetary institutional framework. Those things are the most valuable when you get hit by shocks like we are seeing today, and they really pay off. I think the other thing I would point to is we've long had a view that there needs to be not just one reform in the region, but many, many reforms in the region to get productivity growth higher. If you look at Latin America, they perform -- they have labor force, and they have skilled labor force as well. There's capital formation in the region. But where the region really differentiates itself from other regions, it's a very, very low productivity growth for a sustained period of time. And I would just point to last October. We had a very interesting set of research work on productivity in the region, with some policy advice of how to get productivity and higher productivity growth, and higher growth in general, which is a huge insulator to countries when they're hit by these types of shocks. Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Great. We're going to turn to countries now, and we're going to start with Venezuela. So, any questions on Venezuela? Yes. 
QUESTIONER: Hi. My question is on Venezuela. I was wondering, after the resumed engagement with Venezuela, if the Fund would consider supporting the interim government to initiate a debt restructuring process? And also, how the IMF will be assessing governance and data reliability, considering that Venezuela has had a few years without proper or comprehensive economic reporting? Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Any more questions on Venezuela? Anyone online? Do we have online questions on Venezuela? 
QUESTIONER: Yes. Thank you. Just adding to her question. So, Georgieva just said that the Fund is ready to assemble a staff team and send it over there, but I want to know how fast the team can arrive, and how does the timeline look for an Article IV report from them?
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay. Anything else? All right. 
MR. CHALK: Okay, let me start. We're the IMF. We can move fast. Okay? We've shown that in many, many cases. We are not assembling team. We have a team in place on Venezuela. We've had a team in place for some time. We've had technical engagement with country authorities, with the Ministry of Finance, statistics agencies, and the Central Bank in Venezuela. I'd say virtual engagement -- we haven't been in country -- and we're working with there's a lot of goodwill on the Venezuelan side and a lot of appetite on our side to work with the country. So, in terms of assembling a staff team, there is a staff team in place, and we will be drawing on the resources of the institution beyond that team in order to help Venezuela, as Kristalina had said in her press conference.
In terms of the question on engagement. Let me describe a little bit about how we're thinking. So, as I said, we've had some technical discussions with the country. I've met with Venezuelan counterparts now that we have recognized the country. I understand the Managing Director will be having a discussion with President Rodríguez as well. The Managing Director outlined basically the modus operandi of the Fund. We provide support in terms of policy advice and surveillance. We provide support in terms of capacity development, technical assistance, and we provide support in terms of financial support. We're looking at all of those things. 
I think the priority for us, probably initially, is to build a diagnostic picture of what the situation in the economy is today. We haven't had an engagement with Venezuela for many years. It's going to take us some time. The Managing Director, just at the IMFC Press Conference, said to the Fund staff, and I think this applies particularly to the Venezuela team, 'if you had weekend plans, you'd better cancel them.' That's what we're doing. We're going to be working with the country authorities, and we'll be using our resources, both in the Western Hemisphere Department, but we have resources in the Statistics Department, the Fiscal Department, the Monetary and Capital Affairs Department, and we will be deploying those to help Venezuela and to help the Venezuelan people.
Discussing issues about debt, about financial relationships, it's a very early stage for us to do that. I think first of all, getting a picture on diagnostics of where we are today, getting a picture on where we can help most on capacity development, that's our near-term priorities. And then once we've done that, we can start thinking about other things as well. Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay, let's move on then. Other country questions, please. Okay. All right, let's go, Argentina. 
QUESTIONER: Inflation in Argentina reached 3.44 percent in March, the highest in a year. The IMF also raised inflation projections for this year. Is this an issue that concerns the IMF regarding the program? 
MS. ZIEGLER: Thank you. Okay, more questions on Argentina? And I know we have some -- we'll go online as well. Thank you. 
QUESTIONER: Thank you. Minister Caputo has achieved this week a series of agreements with World Bank and IDB, in order to access funding to repay debt. Argentina was expected to access capital markets by this time of the year. I wonder if -- how does the IMF view this alternative funding? 
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay, we'll go online. 
QUESTIONER: Thank you for taking my question. The IMF said this week in the Staff Report, in the Staff-Level Agreement, that -- and I'm going to quote -- "Staff welcomes the authorities and the commitment to the program, including through the implementation of corrected measures to address earlier setbacks. Upon completion of pending measures, the review will be submitted to the IMF Executive Board for consideration." My question is, could you please explain which are the earlier setbacks and what are the pending measures? Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay, anyone else?
QUESTIONER: Thank you. My question is the Staff-Level Agreement does not mention the possibility of granting a waiver to Argentina for failing to meet the reserves target of last year. Was this under consideration? Did you discuss it with the Argentine authorities? Thank you. 
MR. CHALK: Okay. Let me start, and then I'll turn it over to Luis. 
So, on measures and on the Staff-Level Agreement, I would say that we view the Staff-Level Agreement as a very good outcome both for Argentina and for the Fund. We've had very productive discussions with the government. We continue to engage very closely. 
I would look at what's happened during the course of this year as a very positive policy momentum for the country. The budget was passed. That was very important. There was an important labor reform. Reserves are being accumulated through the central bank's consistent action in markets to purchase reserves. We've recently seen the Central Bank announce technical improvements in their monetary operations, which we think will be very valuable. 
There's a continual effort to remove distortions in the economy, to open up the economy, increase productivity. We're seeing those results already in the energy sector. Argentina is now an energy exporter. This is hugely valuable in the current circumstances where they're getting hit by higher energy prices. There's an important joint commitment from the authorities and from us to supporting the country, from the authorities to sound policy, and for us to supporting Argentina.
In terms of the completion of the pending measures, that's not a major issue. The team has been working. There's some technical things that have to be worked out in terms of the process of us bringing the program to the Board, and to iron out some details. We have to prepare documents, and then we need to present that to our Board. In terms of the waiver, that's a decision for our Board. We will present that to the Board. They will decide when they meet on the waiver question. But we feel like the whole framework in place now is consistent. It's a strong macroeconomic framework. We think it's going to really be important and continue improvement in the trajectory that Argentina is on. And I think we're also seeing that reflected in markets as well, and their views of Argentina. 
But let me turn it to Luis to handle some of the other questions on Argentina. 
MR. CUBEDDU: Thanks, Nigel. I'll try to address a few questions on inflation, I think, questions regarding the financing, as well as on reserves. 
Maybe to start off with inflation, the increase in inflation that we saw to 3.4 in March reflects a series of factors. And clearly, the increase in energy prices at the -- at the global level did have an impact. During the month of March, you saw basically increases also in seasonal prices, education, as well increases in regulated prices as the authorities begin to, I guess, address some of the relative price misalignments that exist in the economy. So, there are reasons for why we saw an increase in inflation in the month of March. 
We are projecting a disinflation process to take place in the months to come. High frequency indicators for April suggest that that's the case. That will be underpinned by prudent policies on the fiscal side with a very strong fiscal anchor, the credibility of which is being enhanced. And also, as Nigel mentioned, enhancements in the monetary policy framework as well that will help to underpin a process of remonetization of the economy. If you look at also at inflation expectations, inflation expectations 12 months ahead remain relatively well anchored, and they're in around 25 percent range. So relatively consistent also with our forecast for this year. 
With regards to the financing strategy and the views on the alternative funding, as we mentioned in our press release for the Staff-Level Agreement, the authorities are pursuing a multi-pronged strategy. And that multi-prong strategy has different components. The first is trying to mobilize U.S. dollar financing from local domestic markets. The second has to do with the sale of state assets or privatization. The third is through central bank repos. And then finally, through loans from commercial banks that are being guaranteed by multilateral development banks such as the World Bank and the IDB. And we see this aspect is also essential as well as important as well to the overall financing strategy for this year. What we also have mentioned is that going forward, our view is that through the mobilization of this financing, through the implementation of the program, through greater reserve accumulation, we would see a reduction in spreads and, over time, a timely and more sustainable access to international capital markets. 
On the issue of reserves, and there were questions with regards to the waiver, under the program what we are envisaging is that the authorities will accumulate net international reserves by at least $8 billion this year. Part of this is meant to offset some of the decreases that took place last year. This obviously will be underpinned by efforts to mobilize external financing, which I just spoke to about that. And then also through continued FX purchases by the central bank. The central bank is, you know, moving in that direction. They've already purchased $6 billion so far this year. 
As regards the waivers, waivers are requested by the authorities, and they're approved by the Executive Board. Our plan is to be able to go to the Executive Board sometime in early to mid-May, and we're in the process of preparing the documents for that. Thanks. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay, let's move on online. I think you're muted. 
QUESTIONER: Yeah. Hello. Thank you. My question is, of course, about Chile for Mr. Nigel Chalk. What is your view about the Chilean government's decision to implement a tax reform here in Chile, which lowered the corporate tax rate from 27 percent to 23 percent to attract investment? Is it headed in the right direction? And well, what is your assessment in that? What do you think about it? 
MS. ZIEGLER: Do we have any other questions on Chile in the room? 
MR. CHALK: Okay, I think I'm going to let Dora answer that. 
MS. IAKOVA: Thank you. So, the government just submitted to Congress a bill proposing a number of tax cuts, and this is now currently being debated in Congress. It was just submitted yesterday. So, we are still looking at the details of the bill, and we will have a mission in Santiago later this month to be able to assess the measures more carefully. And we also have to see what would be the result from the discussions in Congress. 
So, I would say more generally that permanent tax cuts, especially substantial permanent tax cuts, have to be offset by permanent revenue raising measures or corresponding expenditure measures. This would be important to maintain that sustainability and to maintain that below 45 percent, which is the debt rule in Chile. Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Great. Okay, more questions? Is it on Chile or? Okay, go ahead.
QUESTIONER: All right, thank you. This one is more specifically to St. Kitts and Nevis. Last year, the government operated on a deficit budget. The IMF has long suggested that the government should reintroduce income tax and also review its current tax structure. Is that still the view of the IMF at this point in time, taking into consideration the current geopolitical environment that we are in? Thanks. 
MR. CUBEDDU: So, I think we still have the same view. I think it's not the case so, you can reform. We understand the issue that with higher fuel prices, that's putting pressure on families in St. Kitts and particularly on lower-income families. Despite that, we think that there are structural reforms, supply-side reforms that will help St. Kitts to have some fiscal space so that when these shocks happen, they have more space to react to those shocks. One of the things we've argued for is on the income tax. 
However, I would say there is flexibility in the -- just the country could engage in a tax reform, a process of tax reform. That doesn't mean those tax changes have to happen immediately. There is time to wait. But putting them in place, legislating them, that takes time. And when they become effective does not necessarily have to be the same time as when they're legislated. And I think that that timing question, we don't want to put more burden on lower-income households. But to be honest, a progressive income tax reform could actually generate resources to provide even more support for lower-income households as they face higher food prices and higher fuel prices. Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Thank you. So next, we're going to take a question online. Please, go ahead. 
QUESTIONER: Hello, thank you for having my question. So, I would like to know, do you have any perspective about how it's going to impact the oil prices in the plan of the government to reduce oil subsidies? As you know, President Noboa has been reducing all subsidies since 2024. But I don't know if now the scenario is different. I think there is space to change that plan, to reduce the plan to reduce subsidies. 
And the other question is about the program. We know that one of the targets is to reduce the spending on salaries, public salaries. And this month, we know that the government is laying off doctors from public hospitals. So, we'd like to know if this measure is part of the program or is not part of the program? 
And finally, when is expected the resolution of when we are going to have news about the Board, about the Fifth Review of the program? Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Thank you. Any other questions on Ecuador? Please, go ahead. 
QUESTIONER: Hello, good afternoon. My question is about the recent Staff-Level Agreement. When does the Executive Board expect to approve the next tranche? And what key benchmarks remain pending for Ecuador, please? Thank you.
MS. ZIEGLER: Any other questions on Ecuador? 
MR. CHALK: Thank you. Let me handle the question on subsidies, and then I'll hand to Ana on some of the other questions. 
So, as you know, this government, I would say, took courageous decisions to remove fuel subsidies in the country. They did it in combination with support from IFIs, particularly the World Bank was instrumental. They did it in a sensitive way that had social assistance programs to help cushion the impact of those choices on the poor people. I think it's a model for how well-designed subsidy reform should look. We would not want Ecuador to go back to the previous system that it had. Rather, what we feel is that if there's a need within the government, within society to support, as I said, farmers, firms, and individuals that are most hard hit by these increases in fuel prices. That can be done through the fiscal channels that have been established, and we think that's the best way to do it. And it's really important to consolidate and to build on those gains that this government had said. 
And I would just add, I think it's a one-year anniversary for Minister Moya in that position. I would just say that she has been instrumental in moving the forms of the country forward in an intelligent, in an insensitive, and sensible way. She has a very realistic view of the constraints, but also a realistic view of the needs of Ecuador. And you can see that in the confidence of markets, how they -- how they have viewed her stewardship of the economy. Ecuador was able to issue a $4 billion bond in international markets earlier this year. Their spreads have declined to around 400 basis points. I think the building of a clear, sensible, sustainable policy platform, a lot of that was anchored in fiscal policy, has been really important, and I think Minister Moya has been very instrumental in making that happen. So just let me say that.
Let me turn to Ana. 
MS. CORBACHO: Thank you. So, we reached a Staff-Level Agreement with the authorities at the end of March, and we expect IMF Executive consideration of the Fifth Review of the program in the coming days. This would mark the Fourth Review of the program in just one year and it would provide access to Ecuador to about $400 million. The fact that we have been able to advance the very successful reviews of the Ecuador program is testament to the very strong commitment that the authorities have demonstrated under the leadership of Minister Moya. The program has been instrumental in anchoring macroeconomic and financial stability and strengthening fiscal sustainability. 
To build on Nigel's questions in terms of the fiscal program, the primary goal of the reforms has been to improve the targeting of fiscal spending to increase protection of the most vulnerable, at the same time as gaining more efficiency and creating space for productive investment, and in particular public investment. We find that this combination of strength and targeting will help Ecuador also invest for the future and bring more sustainable, more inclusive, and stronger growth for the population. Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay, any other questions? Country questions in the room? Otherwise, we have a few online. So, I think we'll go to Mexico now. We have a question on Mexico online. 
Okay, if not, while we're waiting, let me go to Canada then. They are: "Canada's internal birth rate is at record lows, with the government also slowing down immigration and population now falling. Does the IMF have any ideas about ways to keep the population stable in the long run? Secondly, Canada's GDP managed to keep growing. Last year, despite some high U.S. tariffs on key industries, many economists predicted Canada would experience a recession. Does that suggest Canada will fare well this year even if the U.S. continues to impose trade penalties?" 
And I'll take this moment if anyone in the room has a question on Canada. Okay, let's take those. 
MR. CHALK: Thank you, Julie. Okay, so on the demographic question. So first, let me say we don't see a labor shortage in Canada today. We think the labor market actually looks quite well-balanced. But prospectively, we are conscious Canada's birth rate has now fallen to sort of the level we're seeing in other advanced economies, like Italy and some of the European economies. That will be a headwind to growth. It could become a constraint to growth as well. 
So, what would we view would be potential policy solutions. I think there's a number of them. First of all, I think having a well-calibrated, skills-based immigration policy is really important when your domestic population growth is slowing. Canada probably has one of the gold standards of immigration policies in that sense. It's a very well-structured, sensible immigration system. But I think it's a system that has to be sensitive to absorption capacity. So, the pace at which those immigration flows come in has to be calibrated to where there's sufficient housing, schools, infrastructure, hospitals, all of those things are needed for effective immigration. And then there needs to be effective integration of those workers into the labor force, which Canada actually does very, very well. So immigration is one aspect. 
The second aspect I would highlight is participation. Having more Canadians working in the economy will help relieve some of those potential constraints on labor supply. Childcare for families who are working is super important. There's a lot of economic evidence that can really increase both male and female participation, as people with young children are able to work in the labor force. And also, facilitating work as life expectancy increases. Facilitating work for those who are older in society so that they can continue to work is important as well. They have a lot of high-quality skills and experience, and it's an asset for the country that they can tap into. 
Finally, I would say the other thing that's really important is to increase labor productivity so you can do more with fewer workers. Canada, the new government, has been working to that end. A lot of measures have been put in place, progress measures put in place to try and remove constraints to productivity, increase innovation, increase the speed at which technology is adopted in the -- in the country. Some of the things that we've been discussing with the government is credential recognition -- it's super important -- so that people who are skilled and have those abilities, including immigrant populations, can quickly get credentials, and so they can be effective in the labor force. 
And the other thing we've been looking at quite a lot is there are a lot of interprovincial frictions within Canada in terms of freedom of trade, in terms of labor movements. Those are very homegrown. They can be solved homegrown domestically. It's really a coordination problem. We're starting to see some efforts in some of the provinces to do that is to make the system much more interoperable across provinces. That will be very important to raise productivity, which then would help adapt the economy to perhaps slower labor force growth. 
On the resilience question and recession, I would say the IMF never thought there would be a recession in Canada. So I don't we weren't an outlier, but I think we were quite positive on the outlook for the Canadian economy. And indeed, the outcome in 2025 was somewhat better than we had thought maybe a year ago. There are a number of reasons for that. I think the main reason was the level of tariffs that were being applied against Canada because of the trade agreement with the U.S. and Mexico was actually quite a bit less than we thought it might be. But that's not to say tariffs aren't relevant for Canada. They are relevant. They have been a headwind to growth. Even though the average tariff rate, because of exemptions from the trade agreement, is relatively low, there are relatively high tariffs on certain sectors, in the auto sector, in soft lumber, and steel. Those are having unequal effects across the economy, both in terms of sectors and in terms of regions. There are some regions that are more concentrated and more exposed to those sectors that are being more highly tariffed. We think it's right that there should be some fiscal support to help ease the burden of adjustment for those sectors. And so, we're supportive of that. 
We also think it was right that the monetary easing that took place in Canada was also supportive of growth and that with a very credible central bank with well-anchored inflation and inflation expectations, allowing more support from monetary policy was really important.
We still see important challenges to growth going forward. I think the biggest one is how the new trade agreement with the U.S. and Mexico will be negotiated. What the content of that will be, we don't really know. But there are other things I mentioned. Inter-provincial trade that can be done. There's infrastructure investment that could be done. Particularly, releasing some of the export constraints for Canadian energy would be very important. The government's also investing in competition reform, which we also think is an important thing to help the economy grow faster. Thank you. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay, we are down to our last question. I'm going to read it because I think we're having some technical problems. It is: “The Bank of Mexico cut its benchmark interest rate to 6.75 percent at its March meeting. Does the IMF consider this easing of monetary policy to pose risks?” 
And with that, we'll leave that as our last question. 
MR. CHALK: Okay, I'll answer that one. We don't think that poses risks. We think the reduction in interest rate was appropriate. However, we do see that the environment has now changed for the -- for Mexico, with the uncertainty being imposed by these very high energy prices and the potential implications. I talked earlier about how those will be inflationary in pretty much every economy, including Mexico. We don't exactly know the trajectory of inflation in many countries and how much this inflation shock will feed through into second-round effects, into wages, into labor markets, into non-energy inflation. 
In those circumstances, I think waiting and seeing is a good option for policymakers and potentially pausing future rate cuts until we get greater clarity. For most central banks, it doesn't really matter if they make a policy decision now or three months from now. The economic impacts feed through slowly and with lags. And we will probably have a lot more information in a few months about how this conflict will evolve and what its implications will be for commodity prices and for inflation in Mexico. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay. You have a yes or no question that I know you didn't get in with Argentina. So, could you ask your question, and then we will close, please? 
QUESTIONER: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Since they pulled out the reform they had for the way they measure inflation, I was wondering if updating the way that the government measures inflation is one of the elements that is missing for the review to go to the Board?
MR. CUBEDDU: This is not a precondition for us to be moving forward to the Board. These are issues that we are in discussions with the authorities. But the update of, I would say, the inflation and the inflation weights is an issue that is. That is under discussion. The authorities have explained that they will update the way in which they report inflation once the disinflation process is set in and is consolidated. 
MS. ZIEGLER: Okay, thank you. Unfortunately, that is all that we have time for today, and I want to thank you all for coming. We look forward to seeing you next time. I hope that you'll be able to join us for the Annual Meetings in Thailand. So please keep that on your calendar. 
And if you have any questions and they weren't answered today, please feel free to reach out to us at media@imf.org, or if you know the Press Officers, please feel free to reach out to us bilaterally. 
And finally, I just want to make another plug for the blog. Please check it out on IMF.org. It's the Regional Economic Outlook blog, and it was just published at the beginning of this press conference. 
So, thank you all again, and I hope you have a great day, everyone. 
##### IMF Communications Department
###### MEDIA RELATIONS
**PRESS OFFICER:** Julie Ziegler
**Phone:** +1 202 623-7100**Email:** MEDIA@IMF.org
