[News](https://www.imf.org/en/news)
#### Related Links
  * [Germany and the IMF](http://www.imf.org/external/country/DEU/index.htm "Germany")
  * [Italy and the IMF](http://www.imf.org/external/country/ITA/index.htm "Italy")
  * [Spain and the IMF](http://www.imf.org/external/country/ESP/index.htm "Spain")
  * [France and the IMF](http://www.imf.org/external/country/FRA/index.htm "France")
  * [Transcripts](https://www.imf.org/en/news/searchnews#sortCriteria=%40imfdate%20descending&type=transcripts "Transcripts")


#### IMF Press center
The IMF Press Center is a password-protected site for working journalists.
[PRESS CENTER](http://presscenter.imf.org)
##### Email notification sign-up
[Sign up to receive free e-mail notices when new series and/or country items are posted on the IMF website.](https://www.imf.org/en/email-subscription/index)
[Modify your profile](https://www.imf.org/en/email-subscription/login)
  
  

## Press Briefing Transcript: European Department, Spring Meetings 2026
April 17, 2026
**Speakers:**
ALFRED KAMMER, Director, European Department, IMF
HELGE BERGER, Deputy Director, European Department, IMF
OYA CELASUN, Deputy Director, European Department, IMF
**Moderator:**
CAMILA PEREZ, Senior Communications Officer, IMF
**Transcript:**
MS. PEREZ: Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much for joining us today on this press conference on the outlook for Europe. 
My name is Camila Perez. I'm a Senior Communications Officer here at the IMF. And to discuss the outlook, we're here with Alfred Kammer. Alfred is the Director of the European Department here at the IMF. We're also here with Oya Celasun and Helge Berger, both Deputy Directors at the European Department. 
We're going to get started with some opening remarks by Alfred, and then we can turn to your questions. 
MR. KAMMER: Thank you very much. Welcome to this press conference of the European Department on the outlook for Europe. And let me start with the outlook. 
We were ready for an upgrade on growth, and then the war in the Middle East happened. And we now have a downgrade on growth, an upgrade on our inflation forecast. So, we are expecting in our reference scenario that the impact of the Iran war will shave off over the next two years, 0.5 percent of GDP on euro area growth. And we expect in a more severe scenario that could be as bad as shaving off 1.7 percentage points of GDP. So those are the markers we have on the outlook. 
What does it mean in terms of short-term policy response? First of all, on the monetary policy side, let me first look at the euro area and at the ECB. They were in a good starting position, as President Lagarde said. And we fully agree with that assessment. And that also allows some time to see what kind of scenario is going to develop over the next few months, because we have huge uncertainty of whether we are staying with our reference forecast or whether the outlook will worsen if the war is more persistent and if energy prices are more persistent. 
Our expectation is that the European Central Bank, and that is our -- is also our recommendation in the reference forecast, should stay with a neutral monetary policy stance. And that means we would see 225 basis points increase in the policy rate in 2026. But that, to some extent, can be taken back in 2027. Of course, there's uncertainty on this, and we need to see over the next few months what scenario we are in. But that's the recommendation we have if the reference forecast would materialize.
For the Bank of England, we recommend to maintain a restrictive monetary policy stance. And that means to keep the policy rate unchanged for the remainder of the year, i.e., to not go forward with the expected cuts. So that's on the monetary policy side. 
On the fiscal policy side, our recommendation is very much focused on the short term. We are seeing many European countries putting together fiscal support packages for the population, mostly, but also for the firms. Our recommendation here is not to suppress the price signal because, in the end, we need to balance demand and supply, and that is best achieved through a price mechanism and not through rationing. 
Second recommendation is target the fiscal measures to the vulnerable, or, if you want to go further, to some parts of the middle class, to lower the impact of the shock. Why are we so insisting on the targeting? Fiscal space in Europe is at a premium. And the last energy support packages we had during the Russian gas shut-off period cost on average 2.5 percent of GDP. And that's a large number. And we know that if European countries had just focused on the 40 percent of the population, the cost would have been 0.9 percent of GDP. Much lower. And that fiscal space is not available and needs to be used for other expanding. 
So don't waste fiscal resources on making those parts of the population better off or preserving those who actually can deal with the enterprise shock. Focus on the most vulnerable or only some limited part of the middle class. So that's our suggestion in the short term on the fiscal side, and that's important. 
That brings us to the medium term. And I was hoping this would be a press conference where we actually -- and the Spring Meetings -- where we discuss all of the medium-term issues of Europe. Unfortunately, the urgent dealing with the war in the Middle East crowded that part out. But this is really the important one to focus on. And it's not just important in terms of increasing incomes and living standards of the European. It's not just important in terms of to ensure fiscal sustainability so that countries can maintain their social contracts with rising spending pressures. These reforms we have been advocating at the country level, but also at the European Union level. They are important to increase economic resilience, and they are important to decrease the vulnerability of the continent to external shocks in the current geopolitical environment. 
And what are those? We have been outlining these structural reforms country by country. But then we also have a set of reforms for the European Union, which focus on one single market for products and services. We need to get rid of the barriers which exist and which allow -- don't allow enterprises to scale up and become European and global champions. You need to have one integrated labor market so that labor can move across the continent. 
Third, you need a capital market which is steep and has risk capital. And you need an energy union. And why is that important for economic resilience? When you're looking at the energy union part, that's, of course, a lifeblood of the economy. Yes, you need affordable energy. Yes, there is an aim of decarbonizing that energy, but that is also a huge -- of huge importance in order to decrease external vulnerabilities. And this external vulnerability has shown up in the 70s. It has shown up again with the Russian gas shut off, and it has shown up again with the war in the Middle East. And that is the reliance on imported fossil fuels. 
And when we are looking at the current strategy, which is in place through the Green Deal, that Green Deal would eliminate or severely limit the import dependence on fossil fuels. And that would decrease one of the big vulnerabilities Europe has, and the vulnerability which is extremely costly as we are finding out once again. 
So this is, in a nutshell, our messages for policymakers. That means act on the important and don't let your bandwidth completely be crowded out by the urgent. That's difficult, and we are recognizing that. But the medium term cannot wait, including because of economic resilience reasons. Thank you. 
MS. PEREZ: Thanks so much, Alfred. 
Now we can turn to your questions. We're going to start with the room. We're going to go with the gentleman in the white shirt, please, on the second row. 
QUESTIONER: Good morning. Thank you, Camila. Good morning, Alfred, Oya, Helge. My question is about the most impacted countries in Europe, those who are more vulnerable when it comes to energy. I think about Italy, about Central Europe, Eastern Europe. What would be the impact for those countries should the crisis and the energy shock last longer than we should expect or hope? And perhaps another quick question. Should the war had not happened, you were about to upgrade your provision for Europe. What would have been the tendency for Europe without the war? Thank you very much. 
MR. KAMMER: Let me go to your first question on what is the impact on particular countries of the war. What we see is that the growth impact across on average for the next two years, lower level of GDP in 2027 of 0.5 percentage points. That's the average we see in the euro area. But then we see countries differently affected. And one criterion is how much countries depend on fossil energy imports. And those with higher shares of that are more affected through the price channel, and their growth is going to be more affected. 
We have a second channel through which Europe is being impacted, and that is, we see a decline in global activity. And that means for those countries which rely on exports and more exposed to external demand, again they will be hit harder. If you look at two country cases where both criteria are showing this polar development is Germany. For Germany, our impact assessment over two years is minus 0.6 percentage points lower GDP. France it is minus 3 percentage points lower GDP. And that's a bit the span of European market what you're going to see. 
And of course, the big uncertainty is we don't know what the outcome of the war is. We don't know what the impact on prices is going to be. We don't know how persistent the impact on prices will be. That will also depend on how much infrastructure has been destroyed. And then we have a spectrum of in our forecast that the situation could be a lot worse than what we have in our reference line. We don't believe anymore that we will get a better outcome than what we have in the reference forecast. 
And your second question was?
QUESTIONER: You were forecasting an upgrade before the war -- 
MR. KAMMER: Yes.
QUESTIONER: [off mic]
MR. KAMMER: Yes. So, what we saw is actually that our forecast and the drivers which we brought out in January was pretty much on track with going to dismal medium-term growth supported by a fiscal expansion in Germany in infrastructure spending and defense spending. We saw some more momentum in the first part of the year, and that would have led to an upgrade. So pretty much in line with our expectations. A bit better than we expected, but not fundamentally different. 
But this shock now is a significant downgrade and has a significant effect on Europe, and it has increased the fiscal sustainability risks in the medium term. And that's why we are asking country authorities to be very disciplined when it comes to providing support measures for the population. Disciplined in the sense of be targeted, focus on those who hurt and not waste money on those who don't need that support. 
MS. PEREZ: Thanks. We're going to go online. I see Gianluca, please come in. 
QUESTIONER: Yes, thank you for doing this and for taking my question. In your opening remark and in your blog, you mentioned the importance of the energy transition in the European Union and in maintaining its emission trading system. But what we have seen in the last year is that most of the simplification measures introduced by the European Union are focused on its own Green Deal, which is facing harsh criticism and also setbacks. So, is this -- I don't think your answer will be yes. And the question is, is this the right direction for the European Union to push back from its own Green Deal to improve competitiveness? 
MR. KAMMER: So first of all, when we are looking at the Green Deal, it is a strategy to provide more affordable energy. And there's a gap between energy crisis -- energy prices in the U.S., and there's a gap towards the EU. EU energy prices are two to three times higher than the U.S., and that gap needs to be brought down. And the Green Deal is part of that strategy. The Green Deal, apart from decarbonization, and I think that's something we are stressing as well, is a strategy of resilience because it will reduce or eliminate reliance on imported fossil fuel fuels. So that is the view we have on the Green Deal. 
And we think that is the right strategy from economic point of view in order to support growth. This is the right strategy in order to decrease the vulnerability to these kind of external shocks. And I should say, therefore, it's a no-brainer to continue on that strategy. And I would say this war again should give an impetus, actually, to accelerate that transition. 
We also have been saying that this cannot be a country-by-country strategy. If you deal with the intermittency problem of wind and solar, you need to have balancing capacity installed. And it doesn't make any sense if you do this country-by-country. This needs to be a European plan on how to deal with that. And we have shown in our analysis, if you have a European plan and you are thinking European on this one, not just with marginal interconnectors, you actually lower the costs of this transition. And again, that boils down to you don't have the fiscal space, so a no-brainer to do much more at the European level. So that's an important part of our messages. They are lowering the import dependence.
What is extremely important, and that's why I'm so emphatic about it, when investors are making investment decisions, they're looking at the next 10 years in order to calculate their returns. And if you are starting wavering with your strategy, you are telling investors they cannot trust on their return targets when they make these investment decisions, and then investment will drop off. And that would be detrimental to the strategy. So our strong recommendation is continue with your energy transition strategy because it delivers on your growth ambition and it increases your economic resilience. 
Now, having said that, there were discussions, as you said, on simplification measures. And simplification is not a bad thing in and of itself. And what we have seen is that the simplification is really on reporting requirements and has not been going at the core strategy. And in that sense, we are not worried about that. And when we are looking at the recent proposals coming from the European Commission on the market functioning, that's also in line with maintaining the energy transition strategy. What we cannot afford is to pause the ETS or to not go forward with the ETS. That needs to progress, and that is essential. 
MS. PEREZ: We're going to go back to the room. The gentleman on the third row here, dark jacket. Please introduce yourself and your outlet. Thank you. 
QUESTIONER: I have a question about Ukraine. So in the October forecast for growth, Ukraine was forecast to grow 4.5 percent, I believe, in 2026. In the February -- when the new program was launched in February with the IMF, the range was dropped down for 2026 between 1.8 and 2.5. And now, in the numbers from the other day, it came in at 2 percent. So, on the lower end of that range. I was just wondering if you could sort of decompose that reduction in growth forecast? Is it attacks on energy? Is it the effects of the Iran war or other things? Thank you. 
MS. PEREZ: Well, let's see if we have more questions on Ukraine. The gentleman here.
QUESTIONER: My question is also about the latest IMF data on Ukraine. Could they signal a realistic sovereign default risk for the country in 2026 or 2027? Thank you. 
MS. PEREZ: And I believe we have one question online on Ukraine. 
QUESTIONER: Hi, good morning. Thank you. As a follow-up to the previous questions, so I would just ask you, Mr. Kammer, to comment about the Ukraine sovereign debt, taking into account that their state revenues, according to the IMF's projections, will also decrease. So, could you please explain what is the right path for Ukrainian government right now to come out of this situation where their sovereign debt will exponentially growth to 137 percent to GDP next year, but their state revenues are going to decrease simultaneously at this period of time? Thank you. 
MS. PEREZ: Thanks. 
MR. KAMMER: Yeah, so two parts to the explanation on the forecast. First, the big downgrade from the October forecast is a simple reality of that we change the assumption of how long the war will last. Our October forecast assumed that the war would end by end 2025. And we have changed that in our latest forecast that the war is expected to last one year longer. So that's what our new IMF program is based on, including with the financing gaps which we are trying to fill with donor money. And we have a program now in place with an external financing envelope over four years of U.S. $135 billion. 
On the range of our forecast, very difficult to really give a point forecast in a war situation. When we are looking at the recent developments, the overwhelming one is really the not just the hardship imposed and the death toll imposed on the population with the bombing, but the targeting of the energy infrastructure, which clearly also will be a drag on growth. So those are the two parts to that explanation. 
Now, with regard to the situation on debt in Ukraine. When we are undertaking an IMF program, what we are trying to ensure that after the end of the program, we have achieved balance of payments and debt sustainability for a country so that that country can do without an IMF program and without further support from the outside. So that's what we are targeting in terms of the achievements of the program. 
So what are we doing on the debt issue? There is a three-pronged strategy in place in order to deal with all of the pressures which are coming and how we achieve over the four-year time horizon debt sustainability. 
One -- I'm sorry. Four-prong, I would even say. One is it means that we need to build up the revenue capacity over time of the Ukrainian government. That's not important for the here and now, that's also important for the reconstruction, but it's certainly important for the medium term. And it goes beyond that sustainability because we know Ukraine is becoming a modern European state and therefore we'll need to have the revenue in order to provide the social services which its citizens expect. 
It means also in terms of the strategy to cut spending, and Ukrainian government is extremely disciplined on focusing on priority spending measures only. That's the second part. 
The third part is, as I already said, that we have a large external financing component, and there is deep conditionality embedded in that financing. And that also helps in terms of achieving the debt sustainability target. 
And finally, the Ukraine authorities are proceeding with the debt restructuring they have started already. So that's why we expecting at the end of the program that debt is sustainable if we achieve these objectives. 
MS. PEREZ: Thanks. Just before we take the next question, one clarification. When talking about the outlook for France, we meant minus 0.3, not minus 3 percent. 
MR. KAMMER: If I said minus 3 percent, my apologies. Yes. (Laughter)
MS. PEREZ: Yes, we're going to go with the lady in the first row here. 
QUESTIONER: Good morning. Your forecast shows the tax burden in the UK going up quite sharply over the next five years. Is there a danger, particularly when it comes to marginal rates of tax, that higher rates actually damage growth? And secondly, just to follow up on your comments on the need to end reliance on fossil fuels. Is the UK right to ramp up drilling in the North Sea, as our Chancellor announced yesterday, to bolster energy security? Thanks. 
MS. PEREZ: Let's see if there are any other questions on the UK. The gentleman in the fourth row, please, with a light jacket. 
QUESTIONER: I wondered why you think that UK bond rates have moved much more sharply than those among its competitors in the European Union?
MS. PEREZ: Thank you. And the gentleman.
QUESTIONER: Similar question. I mean, could you give U.S. a bit of detail on what you would recommend for the United Kingdom? How much fiscal space does the authority have to respond to the shock? And is there, as to the previous question, any risk of a repeat of the sovereign debt situation that we saw in 2022, to -- after the so-called mini budget? 
MR. KAMMER: Helga, do you want to take these questions? 
MR. BERGER: Yes, thanks. Thanks for these. Our forecast for the UK has been adjusted downward roughly in line with what Alfred explained we have done for many other countries. So there's nothing extraordinary about it. It's a combination of the impact of higher energy prices. And as you know, the UK is sort of as sensitive as many other countries to higher fossil fuel prices, particularly gas, because of the country's reliance on gas, especially for heating, for electricity production. 
So, in terms of what can be done about it and what policies to adjust, our advice for the UK is also broadly aligned with what we have been telling many European countries. It's important to keep sort of the course on fiscal consolidation. The country has been making tough choices. It's weighing so of the benefits and costs of acting on the revenue side. You spoke to the revenue-to-GDP ratio. It's also looking at spending. That is what countries have to do. The balance is a function of political discussions and societal consensus. You know, what's important is that it proceeds. 
The UK does not have the fiscal space to address energy price hikes by expanding the fiscal deficit that it too has in common with many other European economies. So, the goal here is to support those who are vulnerable among the households by providing targeted, temporary, and timely support. You don't want to blunt the price signal that comes from the oil market and the gas market and higher electricity costs simply because we need demand to adjust as long as fossil fuels become more expensive. That's a reality that any country, any firm, any household has to ultimately take into account. We hope we're not in a scenario where this will be a lasting situation, but as long as prices are high, we need demand to take this into account. 
I would also look at the behavior of UK yields in a way that's very similar to other countries across Europe, if not globally. Yields are a reflection of financing needs. So, if deficits are high, if debt is high, refinancing needs are high, then your markets understand that as the situation growth becomes more complicated, this will be requiring additional consolidation efforts, at least holding the course, as I said. And so there, you know, there is a reflection of that underlying fiscal problem that I know the government is looking to address through its multi-year consolidation strategy. 
The amount of money that is available in the British system is determined by the OBR that looks at the fiscal headroom. We leave this to them. Looking forward to the once-a-year update. In the meantime, like for other countries, let's make sure we hold the fiscal consolidation not to make sovereign debt markets nervous. 
MS. PEREZ: The North Sea?
MR. BERGER: Oh, the North Sea. I mean, I'm not an engineer in North Sea natural gas, but my understanding is that the amount of gas that's left there is very little. And so, the question is of how much just physically can be extracted from there as well. But as I said, the IMF is not an expert in this field. 
A general comment to make here is that even if a country discovers new fossil fuel reserves, the market for these energy sources is still a global one. So it's difficult to distract yourself from these global price movements. And so, even if you get lucky and find a secret store -- storage of gas, the prices will still be high, and you have to adjust. 
MS. PEREZ: I'm going to read a question we received online. This question is in Germany. "What does the IMF think about the measures recently proposed by the German government, especially the reduction on energy tax of 17 percent on gasoline and diesel? Is this a targeted measure? Is Germany a country to undertake strong measures against the energy prices, or should the country focus on fiscal stability?"
MR. KAMMER: Oya? 
MS. CELASUN: Thank you. As Alfred mentioned, measures to support households against the energy shock should be targeted based on incomes temporary and they should preserve price signals on that basis. The measures introduced in Germany are temporary, that's good, but they are not targeted. The reductions on fuel taxes will benefit everybody, including the wealthy, and they don't need that support. They also, these reductions are small, but they still blunt price signals, and that's not helpful at a time when global energy supplies are constrained and importing these supplies are expensive. 
So, another way, another thing that we should keep in sight is that to reduce vulnerabilities in the future to similar shocks, it's important to make progress as much as possible with the transition toward renewables and towards electric vehicles that will be key to improve Germany's energy independence and its economic resilience going forward. 
MS. PEREZ: We're going to go to the room. The gentleman in the sixth row, grey jacket, please. 
QUESTIONER: Hi, thanks. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to go country-specific if I may. It's a question about Spain. Projections show a 3 percent inflation increase this year on the so-called moderate scenario. That's a 1 percentage point uptick from previous calculations and probably the largest among large EU economies. So, I'd like to know what -- how do you interpret this? And also, how well equipped do you think the country is to absorb this shock, bearing in mind that there's been some improvement in fiscal balance recently and that the country has like a diversified energy matrix? Thanks.
MR. KAMMER: Helge, do you want to take?
MS. PEREZ: It's Spain.
MR. KAMMER: Oya?
MS. CELASUN: Happy to come in. 
MR. KAMMER: Oya. (Laughter)
MS. CELASUN: Thank you. Thank you. As you know, for some years now Spain has been among the more vigorously growing economies in in Europe. It's been benefiting from a strong labor force, which has been growing in part thanks to strong migration. It's been benefiting from RF funds, and also the policies have been like the energy transition have been helpful to growth as well. So underlying inflation rate was a little stronger to begin with, with stronger labor markets, more buoyant labor markets, and stronger wage growth. So, I think that's what's behind Spain's slightly higher inflation rate recently. 
But by and large, the impact that we're seeing, the one that you outlined, is not very different than what we are seeing in other countries. It would have been stronger if Spain hadn't made that strong progress towards boosting the share of renewables in electricity generation. 
MS. PEREZ: Thanks, Oya. We're going to take the lady in the pink jacket, third row, please. 
QUESTIONER: Question about Italy. You expect the deficit of Italy going down to 2.8 percent this year from 3.1 last year in the context of GDP growing only 0.5 percent, which is performance where we are stuck until next year. Including also, we are only growing 0.8 percent in 2027. The only country in the eurozone with a zero point something growth. So, one, how do you explain the reduction of the deficit in the context of the growth? And two, what is Italy doing wrong? 
MS. PEREZ: Shall we see if we have other questions on Italy? The gentleman in the third row here. 
QUESTIONER: Thank you very much for the briefing. I just would like to ask if you can elaborate on what are the specific reforms that Italy should do? Since you were mentioning country-by-country reform, what should Italy do in terms of fiscal responsibility? 
MR. KAMMER: Helge, do you want to take that? 
MR. BERGER: Now. Now it works. (Laughter) So thanks for these questions. So it's -- let's start with the fiscal numbers. 
Yes, so it's correct. We assume that in our reference forecast that Italy will have a fiscal deficit of 2.8 percent this year. This is in line with the government's current budget proposal, and it's down from the 3.1 provisional estimate of the deficit in 2025. So, in that sense, fiscal consolidation is continuing, and it does reflect welcome progress in fiscal consolidation. In recent years, you may remember that the provisional outcome in 2025, the 3.1, are below what we originally expected for the year, which was 3.3 percent. So, there's fiscal overperformance in 2025 and similar to the fiscal overperformance we saw in 2024. This is welcome progress. 
It's driven this year mostly by spending discipline, which is the appropriate approach in a world where Italy's debt is still very high. We think it will be around 137 percent of GDP on average in 2026, and it will not go much down five years from now, still around the same number. That is too high. And there's also no progress in reducing the amount of debt. So, we will have to continue with ambitious fiscal consolidation, even though the external environment, currently at least, has become a little less inviting. 
One way to make this problem a little less concerning is to make progress on growth. The further you drive your reforms, the more support you get in terms of your tax revenue, and the easier it is to satisfy spending needs. And so this is where Italy can make progress. This is a well-understood reform agenda that we're looking at. We have looked at this and written about this many times. Italy is, for example, one of the countries with very low labor market participation. Labor market reforms that will help here would be making a large focus. Human capital is another problem. There's improvements in governance the country can make. 
So, there's a long list we cannot cover here in detail. But there's scope for improving Italy's growth performance, which is indeed, at the current level, not very satisfying. So, this is a task that the government, I know, is focusing on, and we would very much welcome sort of further progress in this direction. 
MS. PEREZ: We're going to go with the lady in the second row, pink jacket. 
QUESTIONER: Thank you for having my question. I would like to ask first, given the fiscal picture you outlined, how do you see the prospect for using joint European borrowing for financing structural reforms in Europe? And my second question is country-specific. It's about Bulgaria. We adopted the euro just two months before the crisis hit. Do you expect some further complications of this coincidence of events, other than the comment from the crisis? Thank you. 
MR. KAMMER: Let me start off with your first question with regard to joint debt. We have made a concrete proposal for the next EU budget, [the MFF] to increase spending on European public goods, on defense, on R&D, and on energy. So I see spending which impacts and benefits all of Europe. And we also suggested that this increase in spending, which we are suggesting, could be financed by issuing joint debt. And the reason for that is you want to move forcefully with these priority spending because they have huge payoffs in the medium term. Second, if you do it jointly, again, you are more efficient, and you are saving overall budgetary resources. And there is a good reason in economics to finance something like that through debt and jointly, since this is a common nature. 
So the bottom line is, when it comes to many of the European public goods and European strategic priorities, there is a strong case to be made that they financed European right from the European budget. This has a number of components, including increasing own resources. But joint debt is an instrument which also can be utilized. And we, in the IMF, have been long asking for a central figure, fiscal capacity in the European Union, because that helps in terms of risk sharing when it comes to shocks. 
Helge, maybe on Bulgaria?
MR. BERGER: Yes, thanks. So I just looked up the Bulgarian growth numbers, and it's indeed the case that we have downgraded Bulgarian growth in ’26 to 2.8 percent by 0.3 percentage points, similar to France. So, you know, it's not a larger impact than in other countries. But we do worry a little bit about what you alluded to, sort of what could come next. We also have inflation much higher. It's about 0.5 percentage points higher in our revised forecast for 2026. So we're now at 3.8 percent. And this is in an environment where domestic demand is very exuberant. Consumption is growing hotly. We have an increasing current account deficit. A large part of this fiscal policy that is still expansionary, which is not the right approach in a situation where prices are rising strongly. 
So, the challenge for the new government, we know Sunday is an election, will be to look at fiscal policy, ensure that it moves from an expansionary sort of growth-enhancing state to one that is more neutral. That can be done, for example, by looking at the fast growth of public wages at the automatic indexation of benefits. But it is also, of course, an opportune moment to think about reforms that can help growth, given that we just downgraded the growth forecast. Lots of room in terms of being more efficient in using European funds. That can translate into public investment. Finally, a long structural reform agenda on governance, human capital investment, and education. So the new government, if we get one on Sunday, will have its work cut out for it. 
MS. PEREZ: Okay, so we have time for two more questions. I'm going to get the lady, the two ladies in the first and second row, please. 
QUESTIONER: Greetings. A question on Europe, whether you see a possible recession as a result of this fuel price shock, because it has just recovered from the 2022 price shock. And also, one quick question. How do you evaluate the Ukraine's national bank stance on hawkish guidance considering inflation? They have kept the easing of the interest rate. Thank you.
QUESTIONER: I'm from Ukraine, and I have questions about Russian's economy. And does the IMF take into the account that how might the widespread destructions of Russian oil terminals by the Ukrainian army and defense factories can affect Russian GDP? Do you take into account this point, given that Russian economy is largely dependent on these two factors? Thank you. 
MR. KAMMER: So maybe I'm taking those two questions right now. In our forecast, we don't see a recession in Europe materializing. And you will also see that we don't see that to materialize even in the severe scenario. So that is an important message. But those are significant shocks, and they should not be taken lightly. 
Then your second question on the Ukraine National Bank stance on inflation. Clearly, under the program, we have in place a plan with Ukraine National Bank to keep inflation under control. They are having a much, much more difficult time than any other central banks of dealing with that because they are facing lots of these negative short-term supply shocks which suddenly have an impulse on inflation. So much more of these shocks -- much more severe these shocks. And I think they're doing incredibly good job in keeping inflation under control under those circumstances. And yes, they are taking interest action when required in order to prevent second round effects and in order to avoid a deanchoring of inflation expectations. 
So bottom line is incredibly difficult. Many more shocks, much more pronounced, and they're doing a good job in dealing with that and have been becoming very proficient on operating in such an environment. 
With regard to Russia, I think we certainly are noting the destruction of some of the refining and export capacity there. The main effect this year comes really from an increase in the price of oil and gas, and that is going to be the main driver in terms of our economic forecast. So that is more under -- this is more on the upside than on the downside you have been noting. 
MS. PEREZ: Thanks so much, Alfred. We're ready to wrap up, but I wonder if I could ask you a question that I had thought about since you're going on retirement soon. Very well-deserved retirement. I wonder if you had any messages on Europe that you want to leave with us today?
MR. KAMMER: I've been working on Europe now in this capacity for almost six years. And I should say that my tenure in this position started with the pandemic, and it just went through a series of shocks. 
First observation I have is that the European policymakers were extremely good in terms of dealing with these massive shocks and prevented much deeper impact on their populations. 
Second observation is there is a deep understanding that Europe has a problem. Europe has lost, and on the productivity side, it's much slower the growth than in the U.S., and that moves into relatively lower income than could be income in the medium term. That will make it more difficult to deal with fiscal spending pressures, which are coming up, and to maintain social contracts, which they do exist. So they have put in place a strategy which we are very much supporting, very well documented in letter [in Draghi]. And there is a shared diagnostic that there's also a shared understanding of what needs to be done in order to achieve these targets. 
On the income side, I should say that part is also incredibly important to increase the economic resilience. And when I'm looking at the world ahead, this is an ugly world we are living in. It's very fragile. It will be shocks and shocks which are overlapping, and their economic resilience will be at a premium. This agenda will also create that economic resilience, and therefore, it needs to be undertaken. 
And finally, I should say I'm very happy that Europe has understood that while this is a more difficult world, multilateralism, and open economy matters. Europe has been benefiting from this open economy. Europe also, as a response to the U.S. administration's increase in tariffs last year, reacted by increasing trade agreements with other trade partners. In order to compensate for that, we know more trade is better. Right response in all of that. And so, good policies are in place, and policymakers know what to do. And we also hope, and I hope deeply, because Europe has always been an anchor in the global multilateral world, and that anchor is more needed than ever. And for that, we need a strong and prosperous Europe, not just for its citizens, but also for its world.
So my appeal to policymakers is, you agree what is wrong, you know what to do, move forward on this agenda, and you need to have much more outreach to your population and explain what Europe has delivered to your people and what Europe will deliver to your people. And that more reliance on Europe is of the essence. In a world which is very fragile one, Europe can be a very strong bloc. If it's just a set of 27 countries, just to remind everybody. And I think that is understood in Europe as well. Those are 27 small countries. So policymakers know what to do. They need to explain to their population, and they need to move. And that will help Europe also serve the global well-being. Thank you. 
MS. PEREZ: Thank you so much, Alfred. Thank you. And with that, we can close this press conference. Thank you so much for joining. Have a good day, everyone. If any additional questions, please don't hesitate in reaching out to us. Good Friday, everybody. 
MR. KAMMER: And I should have said as part of that, you journalists are extremely important because you need to call when something goes wrong. You need to provide the evidence, and you need to keep policymakers on being responsible. So your profession is under pressure, and you are extremely important in the job you're doing. And you need to do your job as well as you did in the past. Thank you. 
##### IMF Communications Department
###### MEDIA RELATIONS
**PRESS OFFICER:** Camila Perez
**Phone:** +1 202 623-7100**Email:** MEDIA@IMF.org
