01 Mar 2026
Share
[Back to Newsfeed](
Pho Holic and Snack India, at 210 Ballan Road Wyndham Vale, are just a couple of the shops getting behind a Spend and Win promotion giving residents a chance to win a $200 gift card just for shopping local.
The Ballan Road Intersection Upgrade has launched a [Spend and Win competition]( to encourage the community to continue supporting much-loved local shops while major construction is underway at the Ballan, Greens and McGrath roads intersection.
Through Spend and Win, customers (18 years and over) who spend $10 or more per transaction at a participating shop will have the chance to win a $200 gift card.
The competition started on 24 February and runs until Thursday 30 April 2026 with a winner drawn weekly. Shoppers need to scan the in store QR code to enter.
Access to local shops will be maintained during major works to upgrade the intersection. Any changes to access will be clearly communicated so customers can continue visiting in person or ordering delivery from their favourite local shops as works progress.
McGrath Road north is currently closed at Ballan Road until late 2026 to build the northern half of the new intersection. Building the intersection in stages helps keep traffic moving on Ballan Road during most of the construction period.
Currently drivers can access the eateries, car and dog wash, and BP from the shop driveway on Ballan Road.
There is no right turn into the shop driveway from Ballan Road:
  * If you’re coming from Werribee: Use the temporary roundabout to turn back, then turn left into the shop driveway.


There is no right turn from McGrath Road south to Ballan Road:
  * If you’re coming from McGrath Road south towards Ballan Road: Turn left and use the temporary roundabout to turn back, then turn left into the shop driveway.


The Ballan Road Intersection Upgrade will replace the Ballan, Greens, McGrath roads roundabout with a new intersection with traffic lights.
Traffic lights manage higher volumes better by giving green time across permitted movements, giving each approach a fair opportunity based on real time demand and flow. This structured control reduces congestion and improves predictability and safety.
The upgrade will improve safety, reduce travel times and congestion and make it easier and safer to walk and cycle through the area. The upgrade will be complete by mid-2027.
For more information, visit the [Spend and Win competition]( page, or vist the [Ballan Road Intersection Upgrade webpage](
[ Big Build Roads  ]( [Ballan Road Intersection Upgrade](
* * *
[Level Crossing Removal2 March 2026Making progress in Melton News]( Big Build27 February 2026Transport build ramps up this autumn News]( Airport Rail25 February 2026Sunshine Superhub designs unveiled News]( Crossing Removal24 February 2026Newport link road taking shape News](
