# Have you prepped for the first-ever NSW Dolphin Census this weekend?
27 May 2026 
Department media release Native animals Animals and plants Citizen science Research News and media releases
Citizen scientists along the NSW Coast are getting trained and ready to participate in the first ever state-wide Dolphin Census this Saturday.
People have two days remaining to complete the one-hour online training before the one-day census takes place.
Volunteers can count dolphins across beaches, headlands, estuaries, bays and coastal waterways to create a valuable snapshot of where dolphins are found for the Census, which is delivered by Dolphin Research Australia (DRA) and NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS).
In the lead-up, workshops along the coast have trained Indigenous Land and Sea Rangers, school teachers from the NSW STEM Coastal Academy, and community volunteers at Forster, Coffs Harbour, Lennox Head, Hastings Point, the Tweed Shire and many more online.
Volunteers simply need to register and complete a self-paced 1-hour online training course to learn the standard methods and how to submit observations. 
On the day, volunteers will spend at least 15 minutes continuously watching for dolphins from their favourite vantage points along the NSW coast. People can participate as individuals, with friends or in groups, bringing binoculars or a camera with a zoom lens.
The Census is funded by the NSW Marine Estate Management Strategy and information will help us understand what habitat they use and fill key knowledge gaps about dolphins in NSW.
Sign up online at 
## Quotes attributable to Dolphin Research Australia CEO Dr Liz Hawkins:
“Already we have over 380 people registered across the state, and it’s exciting to see so many enthusiastic citizen scientists ready to help monitor dolphins and whales.
“If you care about dolphin and whale conservation, this is your chance to make a difference and help fill vital knowledge gaps.
“Working together as coastal communities we can help improve our understanding and conservation of dolphins and their habitats.”
## Quotes attributable to NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS) Marine wildlife officer Andy Marshall:
“This is an important survey on Saturday, building a picture of dolphin distribution and abundance along the NSW Coast for the first time.
“We need to know more information about these incredible species so we can better conserve their habitat and protect them into the future.
“You can help out, just register, complete the training and bring your binoculars along on Saturday.”
## Fast facts: Dolphins 
  * The Indo-Pacific Bottlenose Dolphin is the most often seen species off the NSW coast, living in estuaries, harbours, coastal waters and playing in the surf. They are globally listed as Near Threatened.
  * Other species seen in NSW waters include the very similar looking but larger offshore bottlenose dolphin, the common dolphin and the Australian humpback dolphin, while occasionally orcas and false killer whales (yes, they are both actually types of dolphins!), the smaller and finer featured oceanic dolphin or even Risso’s dolphin are observed.
  * The NSW Dolphin Census aims to help us understand what species are present, hotspots of abundance and important habitats.
  * Some research suggests female Indo-Pacific Bottlenose Dolphins can show strong site fidelity, remaining within the section of coast where they were born, while males could be more likely to move between areas.


## The NSW Marine Estate Management Strategy
  * The NSW Government has a long-term plan called the Marine Estate Management Strategy which helps protect coastal places.
  * The Strategy supports projects that restore habitats, improve water quality and protect the biodiversity of our coast, as well as recognising that for many coastal Aboriginal communities, dolphins often hold strong cultural values.


Contact us
**Media**
Email: 
