Search keyword
Search
#  Joint media release: From Kakadu to Norfolk Island – Parks Australia prepares for H5 bird flu
25 May 2026
The Hon Julie Collins MP, Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry  
Senator The Hon Murray Watt, Minister for the Environment and Water
* * *
The Albanese Labor Government is investing $4.5 million to support Parks Australia prepare for a potential H5 avian influenza (bird flu) outbreak.
This funding will reduce threats and improve the condition of critical habitat for species that are most at-risk from H5 bird flu, including magpie geese and the Abbott’s booby which breeds only on Christmas Island.
Australia and surrounding islands remain free of H5 bird flu. However, activities such as mapping the nests of the Abbott’s booby will inform conservation actions to help protect this unique species from a potential outbreak.
Activities in Ashmore Reef Marine Park and Coral Sea Marine Park include removing invasive plants and controlling invasive animals like the south-east Asian house mouse which compete for resources and eat sea bird eggs.
This work will build resilience in bird populations to help them better withstand an outbreak.
On Phillip Island and in Norfolk Island National Park, the focus will be on controlling the common starling and purple swamphen, species that are key predators to the islands’ native seabirds.
The funding will also build resilience of native bird populations in Kakadu National Park by reducing threats, like feral pigs, to help protect at-risk species. Feral pigs cause extensive habitat destruction by trampling vegetation and accelerating erosion. They also compete with native species for resources and prey on birds, their chicks and eggs.
This investment also includes more than $2.7 million which is supporting remote area surveillance using artificial intelligence, keeping on-ground staff safe, and other preparedness efforts in Commonwealth marine and national parks.
This funding is part of the Albanese Government’s broader commitment of over $100 million investment to prepare for H5 bird flu. This includes over $40 million for environment measures.
Minister for the Environment and Water Murray Watt said that work to increase resilience of species is an important part of preparing for H5 bird flu.
“We can’t stop H5 bird flu from reaching Australia, but we can prepare by building resilient and healthy populations of our native species.
“That means tackling threats head on, which is why the Albanese Government is funding this critical work.
“Healthy habitats and strong populations give native species the best chance of withstanding the potential impacts of H5 bird flu. Not only this, but these projects will have long lasting, broad conservation benefits.”
Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Julie Collins said an outbreak of H5 bird flu would have major consequences for Australia.
“Strengthening our H5 bird flu preparedness and response capability is critical – not just for our valuable agricultural industries, but also for our unique natural environment and our communities.
“That’s why the Albanese Labor Government is investing over $100 million to further prepare and protect Australia from H5 bird flu.
“This funding is supporting initiatives that will help reduce the spread and impact of H5 bird flu on vulnerable wildlife, including Australia’s native populations.”
Director of National Parks Ricky Archer said that the funding was allowing Parks Australia to take practical, on ground action now to reduce the risks posed by H5 bird flu.
“From Kakadu and Ashmore Reef through to Norfolk Island and Christmas Island, our parks support globally significant bird populations,” he said.
“Strengthening these ecosystems by removing invasive species gives our native species the best possible chance if H5 bird flu reaches Australia.
“Importantly, this investment also supports staff safety and preparedness, including the use of remote surveillance and new technologies, ensuring we can monitor and respond effectively across some of Australia’s most remote and challenging environments.”
