Ministerial media release

Published:
    5 March 2026 

Released by:
    Minister for Roads
* * *
The Albanese and Minns Governments are delivering $36 million in road safety improvements on the Snowy Mountains Highway, with the next stage of works commencing this week.
Jointly funded by the Albanese and Minns governments under the Road Safety Program, the suite of safety upgrades stretches for almost the full 330-kilometre length of the Snowy Mountains Highway.
The latest work includes the installation of new safety barriers, a widened centreline and audio tactile line marking, also known as rumble strips, on various sections of the highway between Adaminaby and the intersection with the Princes Highway near Bega.
Work will be carried out on weekdays, between 6am and 6pm, for up to three months, weather permitting.
Upgrades currently underway at the intersection with Black Creek Road near Adelong, as well as safety barrier installation between Yarrongobilly and the Hume Highway, are progressing well, with work expected to be completed by May 2026.
Transport for NSW is also preparing to install 150 kilometres of rumble strips at various sections on the highway and this work will be carried out in stages until the end of the project. 
Single lane closures, traffic control and a reduced speed limit of 40 km/h will be in place for the safety of workers and motorists. 
Some night work may be required during the delivery of this work. The community will be notified in advance. 
Motorists are advised to drive to the conditions, allow five minutes of additional travel time and follow the directions of signs and traffic control. 
The delivery of the entire $36 million in road safety upgrades is expected to be completed by the end of the year, weather permitting.
**Quotes attributable to Federal Minister for Regional Development and Local Government and Member for Eden-Monaro, Kristy McBain MP:**
“The Snowy Mountains Highway is an important freight and tourism link, connecting regional NSW with the South Coast, and the local timber industry with the Hume Highway and ports of Sydney and Melbourne. 
“This $36 million investment shows our commitment reducing road trauma because we want everyone to reach their destination safely and without incident.
“I know these improvements will be welcomed by everyone in the community.”
**Quotes attributable to NSW Minister for Roads, Jenny Aitchison MP:**
“Safety is our number one priority. 
“The Minns Labor Government is continuing to roll out practical, lifesaving upgrades right along the Snowy Mountains Highway.
“Since announcing this package in April last year, we have already delivered 40 kilometres of new safety barrier and 144 kilometres of widened centreline marking, with more on the way.”
**Quotes attributable to Member for Monaro, Steve Whan MP:**
“As an arterial route for freight, tourism, and health, locals know how important the Snowy Mountains Highway is, and these upgrades will make a real difference to safety for everyone who relies on it
“The Minns Labor Government is committed to investing in practical improvements and tangible support for our regional communities, and I welcome this announcement.” 
* * *
Ministerial media release
5 March 2026
The Minns Labor Government’s rail reliability overhaul has hit a new milestone, with the full deployment of new laser hand-held devices to check overhead wiring thickness during crucial inspections.
Ministerial media release
4 March 2026
The Minns Labor Government is continuing its work to deliver safer, more accessible public transport, with community members invited to have their say on the designs for accessibility upgrades planned for Canberra and Yass Junction train stations.
Ministerial media release
4 March 2026
The Minns Labor Government has today delivered a key election commitment, launching a strategic vision for transport in the South East and Tablelands.


[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
