Ministerial media release

Published:
    5 March 2026 

Released by:
    Minister for Health
* * *
NSW Ambulance staff from across the Illawarra and South Coast have been recognised for their unwavering service, bravery and dedication at a special awards ceremony in Wollongong.
Among the award recipients was Ulladulla intensive care paramedic Harriet Moore who received the Commissioner’s Conspicuous Service Medal for her commitment to duty after continuing to care for patients after a car hit the ambulance they were travelling in.
Despite sustaining injuries herself in the collision at Bodalla in 2023, Harriet helped get everyone safely out of both vehicles before assessing them and coordinating their care, displaying resilience, clinical leadership and focus in a highly complex and dynamic environment.
Several other paramedics were also recognised with Commissioner’s Certificates for providing critical care to their injured colleague and other patients involved in the accident, while emergency medical dispatcher Timothy Webster was acknowledged for his professionalism and composure during the challenging incident.
Illawarra and South Coast residents were presented with community awards at the ceremony for their bravery during emergencies, including a father and son who rescued two young children swept out to sea by a fast-moving rip at Stanwell Park beach in September 2025.
Local resident Hamish Forshaw, 11, swam out to rescue the five-year-old boy and helped him back to shore, while his father Simon paddled out to the boy’s nine-year-old sister and helped her onto his board. With the help of three teenage surfers he brought the girl back to the beach where she was treated by paramedics.
The Awards and Recognition Ceremony is the first of four events held in 2026 to recognise NSW Ambulance staff and volunteers from across the state. Ceremonies will also be held this year in Orange, Tamworth and Sydney.
The Minns Labor Government recognises the essential role NSW Ambulance staff play in the health system by investing heavily in emergency health services through:
  * Abolishing the Liberals’ wages cap,
  * Delivering a record pay increase for paramedics,
  * Deploying 500 paramedics to our regions,
  * And funding an Ambulance Matrix to improve transportation and reduce ED wait times.


**Quotes attributable to Minister for Health, Ryan Park:**
“Awards ceremonies like these are incredibly important in recognising the hard-working NSW Ambulance clinicians, control centre staff and volunteers who serve our Illawarra and South Coast communities so effectively, day in and day out.
“Their care, compassion and commitment to their roles are outstanding, and I offer my congratulations and deepest thanks to every one of them.”
**Quotes attributable to Member for Wollongong, Paul Scully:**
“NSW Ambulance professionals are there every hour of every day to assist those of us in need.
“They are the people we turn to in an emergency and it is fitting that their dedication, professionalism, and service is being recognised through these awards.
“Thanks to all NSW Ambulance staff, and congratulations to the award recipients.”
**Quotes attributable to Member for Shellharbour, Anna Watson:**
““NSW Ambulance staff across the Illawarra and South Coast show up for our community on the hardest days, often at great personal risk. The awards in Wollongong are a powerful reminder of their courage, skill and unwavering dedication to saving lives.”
“To every NSW Ambulance staff member and volunteer across the Illawarra and South Coast, thank you. Your service matters, and our community is deeply grateful.”
**Quotes attributable to Member for Bega, Dr Michael Holland:**
“I am incredibly proud to see NSW Ambulance staff recognised for their courage, professionalism and unwavering commitment to our community. There are many examples of resilience under pressure, clinical leadership and absolute dedication to patient care. Conduct often reflects extraordinary bravery and selflessness.
“It is pleasing to see people recognised for stepping forward in moments of crisis. Whether on our roads or along our coastline, these acts of courage make a profound difference. Every day, our paramedics, dispatchers and volunteers stand ready to respond at a moment’s notice. These awards are a fitting recognition of the vital role they all play in keeping our communities safe.”
**Quotes attributable to Member for Heathcote, Maryanne Stuart:**
“Our heartfelt gratitude and congratulations to all the NSW Ambulance staff from across the Illawarra for being recognised for their service, bravery, and dedication. We turn to these remarkable frontline workers at our most vulnerable of times, they are there for us 24/7. Thank you and enjoy the community awards and recognition for your unwavering commitment to public health and the people of NSW.”
**Quotes attributable to Member for Kiama, Katelin McInerney:**
“This is truly well-deserved recognition for those NSW Ambulance professionals and volunteers in our communities who go above and beyond in emergencies, showing extraordinary bravery and tenacity in the face of considerable personal risk. We commend them for their efforts.”
**Quotes attributable to Member for South Coast, Liza Butler:**
“Today we recognise the extraordinary courage, professionalism and dedication shown by NSW Ambulance staff and members of the community across the Illawarra and South Coast. Their actions remind us how vital these highly skilled professionals are to keeping our communities safe.”
“Paramedic Harriet Moore’s actions after the crash at Bodalla demonstrates the remarkable commitment our paramedics show every day. Despite being injured herself, she continued caring for patients and coordinating their treatment in an incredibly challenging situation.”
“I also want to acknowledge the paramedics, dispatcher and community members who stepped up in critical moments. Whether it was delivering life-saving care or rescuing children from dangerous surf, their bravery and quick thinking made a real difference.”
**Quotes attributable to NSW Ambulance Commissioner Dr Dominic Morgan:**
"It is a privilege to stand here today and celebrate the extraordinary achievements of our award recipients – and to also recognise the profound impact their invaluable work has had on countless lives.
“As well as awarding the Commissioner’s Conspicuous Service Medal and Commissioner’s Certificates for a serious motor vehicle accident on the South Coast involving staff, we are also recognising our paramedics for their long and diligent service with Long Service Good Conduct medals, the National Medal and the National Emergency Medal.
“We also take this time to acknowledge our dedicated volunteers, and those courageous community members who have selflessly stepped in to help others in danger or seek vital assistance for loved ones in distress.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
5 March 2026
The south western Sydney community is benefitting from more timely access to urgent care, with more than 8,400 visits to the Gregory Hills Urgent Care Service (UCS) since the service opened in February 2024.
Ministerial media release
5 March 2026
South west Sydney is benefiting from a temporary ambulance site at Smeaton Grange, which is supporting additional NSW Ambulance staff already on the road in the region.
Ministerial media release
4 March 2026
Another significant milestone has been reached for the more than $1 billion Nepean Hospital Redevelopment as the striking new façade is revealed, providing the first look at the hospital’s future main entry.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
