Ministerial media release

Published:
    5 March 2026 

Released by:
    Minister for Health
* * *
The south western Sydney community is benefitting from more timely access to urgent care, with more than 8,400 visits to the Gregory Hills Urgent Care Service (UCS) since the service opened in February 2024.
Minister for Health Ryan Park joined Member for Camden Sally Quinnell in a visit yesterday to the Gregory Hills UCS to mark the service’s two-year anniversary, meeting with some of the staff who are helping to ease pressures on the region’s busy emergency departments.
The service has helped the local community receive care quickly for non life-threatening conditions which can be safely and appropriately treated outside of busy public hospital emergency departments. These conditions include colds, coughs and flu, sprains and sporting injuries and ear, nose, and throat conditions such as earaches.
The Gregory Hills UCS, delivered in partnership with South Western Sydney Primary Health Network, is open seven days a week from 8am to 8pm, and is staffed by general practitioners and nurses with important virtual and on-site diagnostic services.
The Minns Labor Government has funded three urgent care services in south western Sydney, including Gregory Hills UCS, as well as co-funding the Campbelltown Medicare Urgent Care Clinic with the Commonwealth Government.
Patients who have a non life-threatening condition should call 
Patients needing language support can call TIS National on 131 450 and ask for Healthdirect.
The Minns Labor Government is investing in a suite of ED alternative pathways in an effort to ease pressure on busy hospital EDs and ensure the people of NSW receive the most appropriate care.
This includes:
  * $171.4 million to introduce three additional virtual care services helping 180,000 avoid a trip to the ED.
  * $100 million to continue urgent care services for a further two years to 30 June 2027 to provide a pathway to care outside of our hospitals for an estimated 114,000 patients;
  * $70 million to expand emergency department short stay units to improve patient flow to reduce ED wait times by nearly 80,000 hours;
  * $15.1 million for an Ambulance Matrix that provides real time hospital data to enable paramedics to transport patients to emergency departments with greater capacity and reducing wait times;
  * $31.4 million to increase Hospital in the Home across the state allowing over 3,500 additional patients each year to be cared for in their home rather than a hospital bed; and
  * $53.9 million to improve patient flow and support discharge planning by identified patients early on that are suitable to be discharged home with the appropriate supports in place.


**Quotes attributable to Minister for Health, Ryan Park:**
“Urgent Care Services like this one in Gregory Hills are an example of the Minns Government’s commitment to reducing pressure on our emergency departments, while ensuring patients receive timely care.
“8,400 attendances to the urgent care service means thousands of ED visits avoided. This is a good result for patients and makes a real difference for our already busy hospitals, but there is still more work to do.
“We don’t want to see people and their loved ones waiting around EDs for lengthy periods of time if they don’t need to. This service gives patients faster access to the urgent care they need.”
**Quotes attributable to Member for Camden Sally Quinnell:**
“If your GP is closed or you can’t get an appointment, and your condition cannot wait until you see your regular GP, you can call Healthdirect for advice on accessing appropriate care.
“I want to thank the dedicated staff here at Gregory Hills Urgent Care Service, which has been operating for two years now. Thanks to their commitment, thousands of families in our community have been able to get advice and treatment, all without having to set foot in a busy public hospital ED.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
5 March 2026
NSW Ambulance staff from across the Illawarra and South Coast have been recognised for their unwavering service, bravery and dedication at a special awards ceremony in Wollongong.
Ministerial media release
5 March 2026
South west Sydney is benefiting from a temporary ambulance site at Smeaton Grange, which is supporting additional NSW Ambulance staff already on the road in the region.
Ministerial media release
4 March 2026
Another significant milestone has been reached for the more than $1 billion Nepean Hospital Redevelopment as the striking new façade is revealed, providing the first look at the hospital’s future main entry.


[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
