Ministerial media release

Published:
    5 March 2026 

Released by:
    Minister for Transport
* * *
The Minns Labor Government’s rail reliability overhaul has hit a new milestone, with the full deployment of new laser hand-held devices to check overhead wiring thickness during crucial inspections.
Where once crews could only use binoculars for visual inspections, these new devices are improving the accuracy, speed, and safety of assessments of potential thin wire spots located during patrols without impact to customers.
The adoption of the industry best practice technology was part of the government’s response to last year’s Independent Rail Review.
The Kerry Schott-led Review was critical of maintenance, incident management and passenger communications in the wake of the 20 May 2025 overhead wiring failure at Homebush which brought the Sydney Trains network to its knees for two days straight.
In response, the Minns Labor Government deployed a four-year, $423.4 million asset renewal program to upgrade track, signals, overhead wiring and drainage in flood-prone areas.
A separate $35 million Reliability Maintenance Program was designed to accelerate the most critical infrastructure repairs in the parts of the network where disruptions have the greatest effect on the most passengers.
Sydney Trains has declared a number of critical maintenance zones, including in the Homebush–Strathfield corridor where multiple lines converge and the 2025 incident happened.
As of March, the Reliability Maintenance Program is tracking six months ahead of schedule.
More than 1700 defects have been fixed against a target of 1557.
Since adopting the reliability program, Sydney Trains has delivered:
  * 130 km of track resurfacing and grinding
  * 6.78 km of new track installed
  * 108 turnouts (where tracks meet) resurfaced
  * 2436 additional asset assurance inspections on signalling and electrical systems.
  * 52 overhead wiring joints upgraded to a more reliable arrangement
  * 279 signalling component renewals and upgrades
  * Strathfield drainage repairs completed


**Overhead wire checks**
Sydney Trains maintains 1700kms of overhead wiring.
Following the Independent Rail Review’s findings, 22 handheld wire checking devices have been purchased and distributed to electrical maintenance depots.
In addition to suspect points on the wiring located during routine patrols, the new devices are being used to facilitate an increased frequency of checks at the 1,045 “high-wear” locations identified by Sydney Trains which have a greater risk of deterioration.
Approximately 750,000 rail network assets are maintained in total across the Sydney Trains network. On average, 5,000 inspections on assets are performed each week.
Sydney Trains has plans to deploy two new rapid incident response teams which will be established, based at Redfern and Homebush, with additional skilled staff rostered to respond quickly to incidents.
**Minister for Transport John Graham said:**
“The Independent Rail Review highlighted critical areas that needed addressing to ensure passengers on the Sydney Trains system get the safe and reliable network they expect and deserve.
“Given the crews could only use binoculars to inspect overhead wires, it’s a miracle we achieved the reliability that we did. That’s now changing as we roll out this new technology, and we expect to see long term reliability improve as a result.
“While some interruptions are inevitable on a rail system the size and the age of Sydney’s, there has been significant progress over the past six months as maintenance crews worked their way through the fix of over 1700 defects across the network.
“The better use of technology is a big focus of the Minns Labor Government in managing Sydney Trains and the deployment of handheld devices to assess overhead wires will have another positive impact on network reliability as we identify and resolve problems before passengers are affected by them.” 
**Chief Executive of Sydney Trains Matt Longland said:**
“Sydney Trains is modernising work practices and investing in new technology to provide a safe and reliable rail network. 
“Overhead wiring can be challenging for maintenance crews to inspect given the extent of our rail network and the high voltages it carries. This new technology, combined with the annual survey of the overhead wiring, will provide a comprehensive assessment of wire condition across the rail network to improve reliability for passengers.
“I thank these teams for their crucial work in helping to maintain the Sydney Trains network and deliver improvements for the hundreds of thousands of rail passengers that use the network every day.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
5 March 2026
The Albanese and Minns Governments are delivering $36 million in road safety improvements on the Snowy Mountains Highway, with the next stage of works commencing this week.
Ministerial media release
4 March 2026
The Minns Labor Government is continuing its work to deliver safer, more accessible public transport, with community members invited to have their say on the designs for accessibility upgrades planned for Canberra and Yass Junction train stations.
Ministerial media release
4 March 2026
The Minns Labor Government has today delivered a key election commitment, launching a strategic vision for transport in the South East and Tablelands.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
