Search ABS
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (27 February 2026), [New insights for addressing childhood disadvantage]( ABS Website, accessed 5 March 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, February 27). _New insights for addressing childhood disadvantage_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "New insights for addressing childhood disadvantage." _ABS_ , 27 February 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _New insights for addressing childhood disadvantage_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 February 27 [cited 2026 March 5]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _New insights for addressing childhood disadvantage_ , ABS, viewed 5 March 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Media Release
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (27 February 2026), [New insights for addressing childhood disadvantage]( ABS Website, accessed 5 March 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, February 27). _New insights for addressing childhood disadvantage_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "New insights for addressing childhood disadvantage." _ABS_ , 27 February 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _New insights for addressing childhood disadvantage_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 February 27 [cited 2026 March 5]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _New insights for addressing childhood disadvantage_ , ABS, viewed 5 March 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Released
27/02/2026
Release date and time
27/02/2026 11:30am AEDT
The ABS published new insights on childhood disadvantage today as part of the Life Course Data Initiative (LCDI). 
Steven Nicholas, ABS head of the Life Course Data Initiative, said: ‘The LCDI combines data from early childhood, health, education and community services to give communities and policy makers a clearer picture of disadvantage.
‘Insights published today help us understand how far Australians travel to access critical services, and provide insights into where childhood disadvantage is most concentrated within our communities.
‘As part of the LCDI, the ABS’ Community Data Liaison Officers are helping communities to use data to strengthen local decision making.’
The [Service Accessibility Explorer]( is an interactive map and dashboard showing how far people needed to travel to reach the closest key services like childcare, schools, hospitals and GPs in 2021.
Today’s update also includes an article on [children’s distance to services]( 
'This analysis showed that nearly 80 per cent of children aged 5-12 years lived in areas where the median distance by road to a primary school was less than 2 km,’ Mr Nicholas said.
Today’s LCDI release includes [new insights about household and area level disadvantage]( in 2021. This measures relative advantage and disadvantage by combining data on housing, family, education, occupation and income.
‘The analysis showed that 42 per cent of the most disadvantaged households were living in the most disadvantaged areas,’ Mr Nicholas said. 
‘However, we also found that 13 per cent of the most disadvantaged households were living in the most advantaged areas.
Graph Table
    * Download table as CSV
    * Download table as XLSX
    * Download graph as PNG image
    * Download graph as JPG image
    * Download graph as SVG Vector image


Relative household and area level advantage and disadvantage(a)
Bar chart with 4 data series.
View as data table, Relative household and area level advantage and disadvantage(a)
The chart has 1 X axis displaying SEIFA IRSAD quartile. 
The chart has 1 Y axis displaying Proportion of households in IHAD quartile (%). Data ranges from 12.945348382176 to 100.
Created with Highcharts 10.2.1SEIFA IRSAD quartileProportion of households in IHAD quartile (%)Disadvantaged householdsModerately disadvantaged householdsModerately advantaged householdsAdvantaged householdsDisadvantaged areasModerately disadvantaged areasModerately advantaged areasAdvantaged areas0102030405060708090100Relative household and area level advantage and disadvantage(a)
End of interactive chart.
Hide lower priority columns
Relative household and area level advantage and disadvantage(a) SEIFA IRSAD quartile | Disadvantaged households | Moderately disadvantaged households | Moderately advantaged households | Advantaged households  
---|---|---|---|---  
Disadvantaged areas | 972,739 | 649,181 | 414,067 | 211,716  
Moderately disadvantaged areas | 595,154 | 650,353 | 596,319 | 454,400  
Moderately advantaged areas | 427,928 | 554,375 | 647,163 | 687,012  
Advantaged areas | 305,333 | 451,379 | 679,748 | 922,171  
```
Relative household and area level advantage and disadvantage(a)
```
```
["SEIFA IRSAD quartile","Disadvantaged households","Moderately disadvantaged households","Moderately advantaged households","Advantaged households"]
```
```
[["Disadvantaged areas","Moderately disadvantaged areas","Moderately advantaged areas","Advantaged areas"],[[972739],[595154],[427928],[305333]],[[649181],[650353],[554375],[451379]],[[414067],[596319],[647163],[679748]],[[211716],[454400],[687012],[922171]]]
```
```
[]
```
```
[{"value":"0","axis_id":"0","axis_title":"SEIFA IRSAD quartile","axis_units":"","tooltip_units":"","table_units":"","axis_min":null,"axis_max":null,"tick_interval":null,"precision":"-1","data_unit_prefix":"","data_unit_suffix":"","reverse_axis":false}]
```
```
[{"value":"0","axis_id":"0","axis_title":"Proportion of households in IHAD quartile (%)","axis_units":"","tooltip_units":"","table_units":"","axis_min":null,"axis_max":null,"tick_interval":null,"precision":"0","data_unit_prefix":"","data_unit_suffix":"","reverse_axis":false}]
```

  1. See Media Notes for definitions


‘The data also showed that 42 per cent of all lone parent family households were the most disadvantaged households, compared to 6.5 per cent of couple family households.’
Today’s release includes two case studies and videos on how the LCDI Community Data Liaison Officers have made a difference at the local level:


The ABS is delivering the LCDI (as a pilot) in partnership with the ACT Government, South Australian Government and Adelaide University’s BetterStart. The pilot was established under the Targeting Entrenched Disadvantage Package led by the Commonwealth Treasury and Department of Social Services. For more information visit [Life Course Data Initiative](
  * Insights on household and area level relative disadvantage use data from the 2021 Census of Population and Housing (Census), the [Index of Household Advantage and Disadvantage (IHAD)]( and the [Socio-Economic Indexes for Areas (SEIFA)]( Index of Relative Socio-Economic Advantage and Disadvantage (IRSAD).
  * Each IHAD quartile is based on the distribution of all households. The lowest 25% of household scores represent the most disadvantaged households, while the highest 25% represent the most advantaged.
  * Each SEIFA IRSAD quartile is based on the distribution of all [Statistical Area Level 1 (SA1)]( areas. The lowest 25% of SA1 IRSAD scores represent the most disadvantaged areas, while the highest 25% represent the most advantaged.
  * The Service Accessibility Explorer and children’s distance to services article uses data on median road distance and travel time from dwellings within an area to the nearest service, provided by the Centre for Australian Research into Access (CARA) at Deakin University for private dwellings in 2021, and data from the Census.
  * Distance and travel time to services is an important part of how easily people can access services. Other factors like cost and availability also impact access. These factors are not measured in the insights released today.
  * For any media requests, email  or call 1300 175 070 (9am–5pm Canberra time) with your questions and deadline.
  * Please attribute the 'Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS)' when using our data.
  * Explore our  for guidance on finding and interpreting ABS data, and subscribe to our  to stay updated.
  * Information on how the ABS will release market sensitive releases [during a website or API outage](


[ Back to top of the page ]( "Back to top")
