05 March 2026 
Department media release National Parks and Wildlife Service Werrikimbe National Park Park News and media releases
A weekend of free festivities at Mooraback Cabin in Werrikimbe National Park, in northern NSW, will mark the 50th anniversary of this World Heritage Listed treasure.
Hosted by the NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS), the celebration on 14–15 March offers visitors guided bird walks, informal talks and activities highlighting the park’s remarkable birdlife, rich biodiversity and fascinating cultural history.
The milestone event runs from 7pm Saturday 14 March until 3pm Sunday 15 March, at Morraback Camp Ground, set within the spectacular surrounds of this World Heritage-listed park between Port Macquarie and Walcha.
The Mooraback area was one of the earliest European settlements of the Falls Country to the east of Walcha, with grazing starting in the 1850s.
This Park contains over 20 threatened species and is where the presumed extinct Hasting River Mouse, known from one sample in a British Museum, was rediscovered in 1981.
Flame and pale-yellow robins, paradise riflebirds, green catbirds, regent bowerbirds and Australian logrunners are just some of the fascinating birdlife that call the park home. The Park is also contains one of only five known populations of rufous scrub-birds.
Werrikimbe National Park offers visitors the chance to walk through ancient Gondwana rainforest and experience natural landscapes shaped over millions of years. Werrikimbe delivers towering eucalypt forests, cascading waterfalls, rugged escarpments and deep forested gullies. In spring, forests and heathlands burst into colour with vibrant wildflowers.
For those looking to escape the crowds and experience pristine wilderness, visitors can camp under the stars, Picnic in peaceful surrounds and explore scenic drives and 4WD trails.
Visitors can come for the day or stay longer to enjoy the tranquillity of secluded campgrounds, walking tracks and picnic areas.
To start the milestone celebrations NPWS is offering a free nocturnal guided bird walk at 7pm on Saturday as the sun sets.
On Sunday morning, another guided bird walk at 8am will help visitors to learn more about the diverse birdlife and fascinating insights into the Park’s biodiversity and history.
RSVP to the NPWS Walcha office to help us plan for catering and the guided walks. Visit < is external)](
“Reaching 50 years is a significant milestone for Werrikimbe National Park.
“We welcome everyone to come along to celebrate and reflect on the Park’s incredible natural values and the important role it plays in conserving World Heritage-listed Gondwana rainforest for future generations.
“Werrikimbe National Park is one of NSW’s great wilderness areas.
“Its ancient rainforest to the relatively modern eucalypt forests and spectacular landform give rise to its remarkable wildlife.
“We’re excited to welcome the community to Mooraback Cabin for a weekend of guided walks, birdwatching and celebration.”
Contact us
**Media**
Email: 
