28 February 2026 
Department media release National Parks and Wildlife Service News and media releases
For the first time, the NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS) will celebrate the 2026 Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras by stepping out to showcase its LGBTQIA+ employee network, the Rainbow Lyrebirds alongside colleagues and allies.
The Rainbow Lyrebirds network, which has grown to more than 70 members since it commenced in 2023, is a space for LGBTQIA+ staff to connect and collaborate with particular focus on colleagues living and working in regional and remote NSW.
The 2026 parade entry will feature a large rainbow lyrebird lantern, with participants wearing rainbow lyrebird tails reflecting the diversity of the NPWS workforce and the LGBTQIA+ community.
The NPWS lyrebird logo has also received a rainbow makeover for a second year during the Mardi Gras period and appears on NPWS digital channels from 13 February to 1 March 2026, recognising the diversity of NPWS staff and visitors.
NPWS was also represented at Fair Day on Sunday 15 February 2026 through a joint stall with the Department of Planning and Infrastructure (DPI), the Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water (DCCEEW) LGBTQIA+ employee network The Rainbow Connection, and staff and volunteers from Taronga Zoo.
More information: < is external)](
“Marching as Rainbow Lyrebirds is about visibility and belonging, celebrating our people, in every role and every region across NSW.
“This year’s Mardi Gras theme is Ecstatica and we’re revelling in the joy of being recognised for who we are, including at work.
“NSW National Parks and Wildlife staff support environments where everyone can feel welcome, and we’re proud to spotlight the diversity of our inclusive workplace.
“We want everyone to know there’s a place for them in our team at the NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service with a crew that backs you and lets you bring your whole self.
“The only thing better than visiting NSW national parks is working to support them, and our workplace is full of joyful, ecstatic moments.”
photo_camera Open description
Rainbow lyrebird lantern.  close Close description
Credit: DCCEEW 
Rainbow lyrebird lantern 
Contact us
**Media**
Email: 
