27 February 2026 
News Scientific Committee Threatened species Animals and plants News and media releases
The NSW Threatened Species Scientific Committee assesses which species are eligible for listing as threatened species.
Five plants have been listed as threatened species. One minor amendment due to change in a species name.
_Epacris sparsa_ has been listed as an endangered species.
_Epacris sparsa_ is restricted to the lower Grose River in the Blue Mountains, west of Sydney.
More information on the species can be found in the Committee’s reasons for final determination: [_Epacris sparsa_]( "Epacris sparsa R.Br. – endangered species listing | Final determination 2026").
photo_camera Open description
Epacris sparsa.  close Close description
Credit: Gavin Phillips/DCCEEW 
Epacris sparsa 
_Hibbertia superans_ has been listed as a critically endangered species.
_Hibbertia superans_ is a range-restricted species endemic to the Greater Sydney region of New South Wales.
More information on the species can be found in the Committee’s reasons for final determination and conservation assessment report using the common assessment method:[_Hibbertia superans_]( _._
photo_camera Open description
Hibbertia superans.  close Close description
Credit: Alan Fairley/DCCEEW 
Hibbertia superans 
_Tasmannia purpurascens_ has been listed as an endangered species.
_Tasmannia purpurascens_ occurs in the Barrington Tops and Gloucester Tops areas of the NSW Northern Tablelands, as well as Ben Halls Gap Nature Reserve.
More information on the species can be found in the Committee’s reasons for final determination and conservation assessment report using the common assessment method: [_Tasmannia purpurascens_]( "Tasmannia purpurascens \(Vickery\) A.C.Sm. – endangered species listing | Final determination 2026") _._
photo_camera Open description
Tasmannia purpurascens.  close Close description
Credit: Gavin Phillips/DCCEEW 
Tasmannia purpurascens 
_Pultenaea rubescens_ has been listed as an endangered species.
_Pultenaea rubescens_ is endemic to New South Wales; occurring in the Carrai Plateau, Walcha Plateau, and Comboyne Plateau subregions.
More information on the species can be found in the Committee’s reasons for final determination and conservation assessment report using the common assessment method: [_Pultenaea rubescens_]( "Pultenaea rubescens R.L.Barrett – endangered species listing | Final determination 2026").
photo_camera Open description
Pultenaea rubescens.  close Close description
Credit: Paul Rossington/DCCEEW 
Pultenaea rubescens 
_Nematolepis rhytidophylla_ has been listed as a critically endangered species.
_Nematolepis rhytidophylla_ is endemic to the Nalbaugh Plateau in South East Forest National Park in the southeast of New South Wales.
More information on the species can be found in the Committee’s reasons for final determination: [_Nematolepis rhytidophylla_]( "Nematolepis rhytidophylla \(Albr. & N.G.Walsh\) Paul G.Wilson – critically endangered species listing | Final determination 2026").
photo_camera Open description
Nematolepis rhytidophylla.  close Close description
Credit: Dean Ansell/DCCEEW 
Nematolepis rhytidophylla 
A minor amendment was made due to a change in the name of a species.
Reference to _Diuris_ sp. (Oaklands, D.L. Jones 5380) was replaced with _Diuris callitrophila_ D.L.Jones.
More information can be found in the Committee’s final determination for a minor amendment: [_Diuris callitrophila_]( "Diuris callitrophila D.L.Jones – minor amendment | Final determination 2026").
photo_camera Open description
Diuris callitrophila.  close Close description
Credit: Brian Towle/DCCEEW 
Diuris callitrophila 
Updated 27 February 2026 
