Updated: 27 February 2026 
AFCA has published a new short video from Shail Singh, Lead Ombudsman Investments and Advice, explaining the lead decision involving United Global Capital and Next Generation Advice, both in liquidation. The update forms part of AFCA’s continuing work to provide clarity and consistency for consumers affected by the collapse of the Shield and First Guardian Master Funds.
In the video, Shail outlines:
  * What happened in the lead decision involving United Global Capital and Next Generation Advice
  * The outcome of the decision
  * What the determination means for similar complaints relating to Shield and First Guardian


Below is a summary of the decision, for full details, please [read the AFCA decision here](
In this case, the consumer first received financial advice from Next Generation Advice in 2022. They were advised to establish a self-managed super fund (SMSF), roll over their existing superannuation into the SMSF and invest in three funds, including the Shield Master Fund. The consumer told AFCA that the advice provided by the firm presented an unnecessary and inappropriate level of risk.
In May 2023, United Global Capital took over responsibility for providing services to the consumer’s SMSF and in May 2024, the firm advised the consumer to dispose of investments in Shield Master Fund and another fund. The consumer claimed United Global Capital failed to provide timely advice or proper instruction on how to sell the investments.
Both financial firms are now in liquidation and did not respond to the consumer’s complaint.
When assessing the complaint, the AFCA panel considered the conduct of each firm separately. They found that:
  * Next Generation Advice provided inappropriate advice, including recommending an SMSF structure and investment strategy which lacked diversification and exposed the consumer to an undesirable level of risk.
  * United Global Capital failed to act with due care and skill in relation to the consumer’s instructions to redeem their investment.


The panel found Next Generation Advice’s failure to provide appropriate advice caused a direct loss of approximately $180,000, and United Global Capital’s failure to act with due care and skill caused an additional direct loss of approximately $36,000. The panel found it was fair for both financial firms to provide compensation for these losses, as well as for Next Generation Advice to make a further contribution towards winding up the SMSF. 
This lead decision joins other AFCA decisions relating to the Shield and First Guardian Master Fund collapses. Together, these decisions help AFCA’s dedicated teams progress similar complaints more quickly and consistently, ensuring clearer pathways and fairer outcomes for affected consumers.
You can read more about other lead decisions related to Shield and First Guardian on the [AFCA website](
[Go back to all Latest News](
