#  Joint media release: Adelaide named host city for Asia Pacific’s leading agrifood tech conference
3 June 2026
Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, the Hon Julie Collins MP   
South Australian Minister for Primary Industries and Regional Development, the Hon Clare Scriven MLC
* * *
South Australia is set to take centre stage in the future of food supply chain innovation and technology, as Adelaide is announced as the host city for AgriFutures evokeAG 2027.
Led by AgriFutures Australia, evokeAG. is Asia Pacific’s leading agrifood technology and innovation conference, attracting movers and shakers from around the world to form new partnerships and invest in the industries and technologies that will deliver real-world outcomes for global food security.
Today’s announcement confirms South Australia’s growing reputation as a national leader in agrifood innovation, research, sustainable production and agricultural technology. Adelaide previously hosted the event in 2023.
evokeAG 2027 will be held at the Adelaide Convention Centre on the 16th and 17th of February 2027, and is expected to attract producers, investors, researchers, startups, scaleups, corporates and policy leaders from across Australia and the world.
Now in its seventh year, evokeAG. has established a global reputation for connecting the agrifood innovation ecosystem and helping turn ideas into partnerships, investments and positive change.
The event is made possible by AgriFutures Australia, one of the rural research and development corporations funded by the Australian Government and industry, dedicated to investing in research and development in rural industries.
The Australian Government, through the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, is the evokeAG. 2027 major partner, alongside host state partner the South Australian Government, and platinum partner Elders.
For more information about evokeAG 2027, visit evokeag.com/2027-event/
**Quotes attributable to Julie Collins**
_The Albanese Labor Government is proud to be supporting evoke AG. 2027 in Adelaide which will be a critical forum for producers, startups, researchers and policy makers to collaborate and share knowledge._
_I know South Australia is home to so much great innovation in agriculture which makes Adelaide the perfect host for evoke AG. in 2027._
_Innovation is at the heart of our agriculture sector’s productivity, sustainability, competitiveness and profitability and evoke AG. is an opportunity to demonstrate Australia’s success to an international audience._
**Quotes attributable to Clare Scriven**
_The South Australian Government is excited to see that the world’s leading agrifood innovators, producers and investors will return to Adelaide for evoke AG 2027._
_To host this major event for a second time confirms South Australia’s growing international reputation as a leader in agrifood innovation, research, technology and sustainable primary production._
_Our state is uniquely placed to showcase the strength of our agriculture, food, wine, fisheries and forestry sectors, while also highlighting the cutting-edge research and agritech capabilities that are helping to drive the future of farming and food systems in Australia and beyond._
**Quotes attributable to Mick Veitch, Chair, AgriFutures Australia**
_Australian agriculture faces increasing supply chain pressures, climate variability and workforce shortages, making forums like evoke AG, where solutions are found, tested, scaled and adopted, critical._
_Australia has an important role to play in feeding a growing global population, and innovation will help determine how well we do that._
_Ag-tech is a key part of lifting the productivity and profitability of our farmers._
_We can have all the technology in the world; however, it must remain grounded in the realities of agriculture to be effective._
**Quotes attributable to Mark Allison, CEO, Elders**
_For Elders, the value of evoke AG. is in ensuring innovation is grounded in the needs of farmers. It’s about connecting producers with practical ideas, technologies and investment that can be adopted on farm to improve productivity, sustainability and resilience._
_We’re looking forward to seeing those connections strengthened further in 2027, in Elders’ home of Adelaide._
