[News](
Mar 4, 2026
**SACRAMENTO** – Governor Gavin Newsom and Acting Governor Eleni Kounalakis issued the following statement regarding the death of U.S. Army Reserve Chief Warrant Officer Three Robert M. Marzan:
“California mourns the loss of Chief Warrant Officer Three Marzan, a courageous Californian whose service to our nation was marked by honor and distinction. We offer our deepest condolences to his wife and family during this time of profound sorrow. The sacrifices made by military families are immeasurable, and California stands in solidarity with them, united in grief and gratitude. Chief Warrant Officer Three Marzan’s steadfast commitment exemplifies the highest ideals of our state and our country.”
Chief Warrant Officer Three Marzan, 54, of Sacramento, California, was one of six U.S. service members killed, to date, in the conflict in Iran. According to the U.S. Army, he is believed to be deceased as of March 1, 2026, in Port Shuaiba, Kuwait.
As a member of the United States Army Reserve assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 103rd Sustainment Command (Expeditionary), United States Army Reserve in Des Moines, Chief Warrant Officer Three Marzan played a critical role in supporting our nation overseas.
He is survived by his wife and family.
In honor of Chief Warrant Officer Three Marzan, flags at the State Capitol and Capitol Annex Swing Space will continue to be flown at half-staff.
[Press releases]( [Public safety]( [Recent news](
[Facebook]( "Facebook")[X]( "X")[Email]( "Email")[Copy Link]( "Copy Link")
Mar 5, 2026
News What you need to know: A new analysis finds that Trump’s pardons of criminals across his two terms have denied nearly $2 billion in victim restitution, forfeitures, and fines. SACRAMENTO – President Donald Trump has made his priorities clear from day one — in his...
Mar 4, 2026
News SACRAMENTO – Governor Gavin Newsom today ordered flags at the State Capitol and all state buildings to be flown at half-staff in honor of civil rights leader Reverend Jesse Jackson as the nation prepares to lay him to rest.Public memorial services for Reverend...
Mar 3, 2026
News SACRAMENTO – Governor Gavin Newsom today announced the following appointments:Caroline Thomas Jacobs, of El Cerrito, has been appointed Director of the Governor’s Office of Emergency Services. Thomas Jacobs has been Director of California’s Office of Energy...
