# Science students shine at Young Professionals in Agriculture Forum
A unique forum nurturing and celebrating the achievements of the next generation of agricultural scientists was held today, with the support of the Cook Government. 
  * Five postgraduate students' profile their diverse research at annual science professional's forum 
  * Dr Ann-Katrin Wolf awarded prestigious Noel Fitzpatrick medal for her research 
  * Cook Government and Ag Institute Australia (WA Division) supporting development of early career agricultural scientists


A unique forum nurturing and celebrating the achievements of the next generation of agricultural scientists was held today, with the support of the Cook Government.
Five postgraduate students showcased their research to industry professionals at the annual Young Professionals in Agriculture Forum, hosted by the Ag Institute Australia (WA Division) and the Department of Primary Industries and Regional Development.
Dr Ann-Katrin Wolf was awarded the prestigious Noel Fitzpatrick medal, honouring former Department of Agriculture Director General Noel Fitzpatrick. The award was presented by his daughter Sandra Fitzpatrick.
The Murdoch University veterinary graduate profiled her cattle research that will help practitioners to decrease haemorrhaging after spaying. 
Other forum presenters included Curtin University postgraduate researcher Thisuri Hasara and Master's graduate Subash Gautam, Murdoch University veterinary graduate Mattea Hocevar and Bachelor of Science Honours student Chloe Elsegood. 
The students' research - spanning plant pests, animal husbandry, pathology and nutrition - 
will help overcome real world challenges and support scientific advances in the field and the laboratory.
More than 130 students and graduates have participated in the Young Professionals in Agriculture Forum over the past 25 years - helping develop early career scientists.
**Comments attributed to Agriculture and Food Minister Jackie Jarvis:**
"This tremendous initiative has been showcasing the knowledge, passion and research efforts of tertiary students for a quarter of a century - helping cultivate careers in agricultural science. 
"Bright, young professionals, like those involved with this year's forum, are the future of primary industries scientific advances to help advance food safety and security into the future.
"Congratulations to Dr Wolf for being awarded the Noel Fitzpatrick medal and the other forum participants, I wish them all the best for their future careers and continued scientific discoveries."
**2026 Young Professionals in Agriculture Forum presenters**
Thisuri Hasara,  Perth  |  Curtin University postgraduate researcher |  Research on the nutrition content and quality of poultry litter to identify the protein, fibre, minerals and other nutritional values and how these fluctuated according to the birds' age. The study indicated overall litter dry matter, energy and fibre content declined with increasing bird age, while pH, ash, protein and individual mineral concentrations increased - producing valuable information for broiler growers to optimise feed.  
---|---|---  
Mattea Hocevar, Gippsland |  Murdoch University veterinary graduate |  Examined how closely widely used markers to measure blood loss - packed cell volume (PCV) and total plasma protein (TPP) - corresponded to the actual volume lost. The spaying cattle study found while the PCV and TPP markers declined, neither accurately reflected the volume of blood lost. PCV was more stable at 48 hours and TPP more consistently aligned with blood loss at 24 hours e delivering crucial information to field clinicians.  
Ann-Katrin Wolf, Warralakin, near Merredin |  Murdoch University Veterinary graduate |  Explored if the hormone prostaglandin, influenced PCV and TPP markers in cattle over a five-day period. The results demonstrated that prostaglandin did not have a significant effect on the indicators of blood loss PCV or TPP, confirming the indicators as a useful measure for blood loss, helping veterinarians to decrease haemorrhaging after spaying.   
Subash Gautam,  Perth  |  Curtin University Master's graduate |  Examined the expression and purification of the fungal enzyme ferrochelatase (FC) to enable it to be reproduced for potential use in developing new fungicides. The work with the university's Centre for Crop and Disease Management found FC could be successfully reproduced in the laboratory but further research was required for it to be used as a potential molecular target for new antifungal agents.  
Chloe Elsegood, Mingenew |  Murdoch University Bachelor of Science Honours student |  Research on the potential for native ladybirds as a biological control for Russian wheat aphid. Early glasshouse observations show successive generations of native ladybirds can feed on the pest during their entire life cycle, providing critical insights to aid integrated pest management strategies for grain growers.   
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
12 March 2026 
Ministers
###  [ Hon. Jackie Jarvis ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Jackie%20Jarvis)
Minister for Agriculture and Food; Fisheries; Forestry; Small Business; Mid West 
[See all media statements from this Government](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government)
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](https://subscribe.dpc.wa.gov.au)
