# Budget delivering quality infrastructure for Western Australians
The Cook Labor Government is continuing its commitment to delivering quality roads and ports infrastructure across Western Australia in the 2026-27 State Budget. 
  * Cook Labor Government delivering quality infrastructure for the future through the 2026-27 State Budget
  * $1.1 billion joint investment for Anketell Road upgrades to improve safety and efficiency for all road users 
  * $127.4 million to replace regional bridges across the State 
  * $89.1 million for the next phase of the Transforming Bunbury's Waterfront project
  * $83.2 million to deliver the first stage of upgrades to Great Northern Highway between Fitzroy and Gogo


The Cook Labor Government is continuing its commitment to delivering quality roads and ports infrastructure across Western Australia in the 2026-27 State Budget. 
A joint $1.1 billion investment by the Albanese and Cook Labor Governments will deliver critical upgrades to Anketell Road between Leath and Abercrombie Roads. 
The transformational road upgrades will improve freight efficiency and safety for all road users, as well as support the construction and future operation of the new Westport container terminal and productivity across the wider Western Trade Coast. 
The Cook Labor Government is continuing its strong track record of investment in the State's road network with $3.6 billion committed for regional roads over the next four years. 
The 2026-27 State Budget includes investment to progress a range of critical road projects across WA, including:
  * $127.4 million to replace priority timber bridges across regional WA;
  * $113.5 million boost for Main Roads' maintenance program;
  * $83.2 million to deliver the first stage of flood resilience upgrades to Great Northern Highway between Fitzroy and Gogo;
  * $61 million to complete upgrades to Toodyay Road;
  * $25 million to support road infrastructure planning at Latitude 32 and the Australian Marine Complex;
  * $9.4 million allocated for priority works on water drainage bridges in the South West;
  * $7.5 million towards the Safer Local Roads and Infrastructure Program for new and expanded heavy vehicle rest areas; and
  * $2 million towards planning and pre-construction activities to improve access to Swan Christian College on Great Northern Highway.


The Cook Labor Government is continuing to invest in maritime and port projects across the State to drive economic development and support tourism in the regions. 
A further $89.1 million will support the next phase of the Transforming Bunbury's Waterfront project, delivering a new inclusive community recreation precinct, more boat pens and upgrades to the harbour's outer seawall. 
More than $30 million will be also invested by the Department of Transport and Major Infrastructure to maintain and upgrade maritime assets across the State.
The Cook Labor Government will also invest $4.8 million to begin long-term planning for additional capacity at the Port of Bunbury.
To support iron ore export growth at the Port of Port Hedland, a $50 million investment - funded by port users - will deliver the Zone 5 Bypass Channel, enhancing vessel safety and operational reliability.
The Cook Labor Government is also continuing its investment in WA's world-class public transport network, so it remains affordable and accessible right across the State.
The 2026-27 State Budget includes $139 million for public transport infrastructure, including $68 million for further upgrades to electric bus depots to support the State's growing fleet. 
It also includes $50 million to replace the Sutherland Street rail bridge on the Fremantle Line, and $3 million to undertake project definition for upgrades to support improved connectivity and access at McIver Station and the Royal Perth Hospital precinct. 
For more information, visit [ourstatebudget.wa.gov.au](https://www.ourstatebudget.wa.gov.au/)
**Comments attributed to Premier Roger Cook:**
"My government is prioritising quality infrastructure for all Western Australians.
"That way, we can support a high quality of life for all Western Australians, no matter where they live.
"That's exactly what this Budget will deliver for WA.
"Our responsible Budget management has kept WA's economy the strongest in the nation so we can continue delivering world-class public transport, improving our road network, and improving infrastructure and services in our regional centres and remote communities."
**Comments attributed to Treasurer and Transport Minister Rita Saffioti:**
"The Cook Labor Government's strong financial management means we can continue to invest at record levels to deliver the infrastructure Western Australians need for the future.
"We're focused on delivering transport infrastructure that keeps our communities connected and resilient, ensuring people and goods can move safely and reliably across our State. 
"The pipeline of infrastructure projects funded through the 2026-27 State Budget will keep our communities and economy strong, supporting generations of Western Australians."
**Comments attributed to Ports Minister Stephen Dawson:**
"Our ports drive Western Australia's economic growth, and the State Budget is investing in infrastructure to keep our State moving forward.
"Through the Cook Labor Government's investment at Bunbury port, we are preparing it for future growth. 
"With the support of port users, the Zone 5 Bypass Channel at Port Hedland will provide more resilience and enhance safety for shipping operations."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
7 May 2026 
Ministers
###  [ Hon. Roger Cook ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Roger%20Cook)
Premier; Minister for State Development; Trade and Investment; Economic Diversification 
###  [ Hon. Rita Saffioti ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Rita%20Saffioti)
Deputy Premier; Treasurer; Minister for Transport; Sport and Recreation 
###  [ Hon. Stephen Dawson ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Stephen%20Dawson)
Minister for Regional Development; Ports; Science and Innovation; Medical Research; Kimberley 
[See all media statements from this Government](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government)
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](https://subscribe.dpc.wa.gov.au)
