# The Big Issue boosts job options for disadvantaged women 
A $1.5 million Cook Government investment in The Big Issue's new National Customer Support Centre is creating opportunities for women who face significant barriers to entering the workforce and building financial independence. 
  * The Big Issue's new National Customer Support Centre has officially opened in Perth
  * Cook Government has committed $1.5 million to support program which is set to employ more than 100 women over the next five years
  * Centre will be operated through The Big Issue's Women's Workforce program which provides meaningful employment and training opportunities for women experiencing disadvantage
  * Cook Government committed to building safe and inclusive communities 


A $1.5 million Cook Government investment in The Big Issue's new National Customer Support Centre is creating opportunities for women who face significant barriers to entering the workforce and building financial independence.
Women Minister Simone McGurk today officially opened the new facility in Hay Street, Perth, which will provide stable job placements to more than 100 women over the next five years as part of the Big Issue's Women's Workforce program.
Women participating in the program will receive targeted training in a customer service environment, including using tools such as email, spreadsheets and data collection to process phone and email enquiries and create bookings. 
Training focuses on digital skills needed in today's workforce to boost the women's capacity and confidence and equip them to move into long term employment when ready. Transferable skills included in training modules also include cyber security and privacy obligations to ensure that participants are empowered for the modern workforce. 
Since 2017, approximately 30 women have been employed by the Perth branch of the Women's Workforce program to pack and send magazine subscriptions of The Big Issue in a safe and supportive environment. The Women's Workforce has provided the participants, many of whom are victim-survivors of family and domestic violence and have experienced homelessness, with access to training and jobs skills to financially empower them and their families. 
The Big Issue is one of Australia's longest-standing and most successful social enterprises. For 28 years, it has supported thousands of people living on the margins with employment opportunities to earn a meaningful income.
**Comments attributed to Women Minister Simone McGurk:**
"I am proud to open The Big Issue's new National Customer Support Centre in Perth today and welcome the support and opportunities it will provide to women to develop workplace skills and confidence within a safe environment.
"Gaining employment is a crucial step for many women and families to get back on their own two feet and secure financial independence. 
"The Women's Workforce program has been a catalyst for change, and the new National Customer Support Centre initiative will deliver employment and training opportunities to many more women who face significant barriers to entering the workforce.
"I encourage everyone to get out there and buy The Big Issue so it can continue its incredible work in supporting not only women but providing meaningful employment to thousands of people around Australia."
**Comments attributed to The Big Issue chief executive officer Steven Persson:**
"Supporting people on the street is a civil and necessary thing to do, but it's not a solution on its own. At The Big Issue, we've always believed economic empowerment must be part of the answer. 
"We are committed to meeting people, especially the most vulnerable, where they are, and creating barrier-free employment opportunities wherever we can. For many women escaping family violence, particularly those caring for children or rebuilding their lives, selling the magazine on the street simply wasn't an option. So we created a practical solution: a safe, supportive workplace where women could earn an income, build confidence and take steps towards stability.
"We thank the WA Government for its leadership in investing in programs that help vulnerable women into work. With growing numbers of women seeking support from The Big Issue, initiatives like this are critical in building independence and connection to community, and we hope WA's leadership will help pave the way for expanding similar programs in other States."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
11 March 2026 
Ministers
###  [ Hon. Simone McGurk ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Simone%20McGurk)
Minister for Creative Industries; Heritage; Industrial Relations; Aged Care and Seniors; Women 
[See all media statements from this Government](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government)
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](https://subscribe.dpc.wa.gov.au)
