# Budget to deliver quality education throughout Western Australia
The Cook Labor Government will continue its strong investment in educational outcomes and school infrastructure, boosting funding for new schools and upgrades, additional support for school-based staff, and learning opportunities for young Western Australians in this year's State Budget. 
  * Cook Labor Government to invest a record $8.9 billion in education and WA schools in 2026‑27
  * $2.1 billion to be invested in new schools, upgraded facilities, and improvements over the next four years
  * $89.5 million for a new 2026 round of the WA Student Assistance Payment 
  * $39.9 million from the Public Education Endowment Trust to support education maintenance and minor works projects
  * $15.7 million for a new Disability and Inclusion Professional Learning Hub and $310.1 million in increased support for students with disability
  * $7.7 million to further strengthen swimming and water safety education
  * $4.6 million extension of WA ClassmAIte AI pilot to reduce teacher workloads


The Cook Labor Government will continue its strong investment in educational outcomes and school infrastructure, boosting funding for new schools and upgrades, additional support for school-based staff, and learning opportunities for young Western Australians in this year's State Budget. 
In 2026-27, the Cook Labor Government will invest a record $8.1 billion to continue delivering high-quality education and $810 million in education infrastructure. Overall, the 2026-27 Budget commits $1.7 billion to school education, continuing the delivery of key election commitments and improving outcomes for WA students. 
Over the next four years, the Cook Labor Government will invest more than $2.1 billion in school infrastructure, to provide the best possible learning environments for students across the State. 
This investment will support new schools, infrastructure upgrades and maintenance, including:
  * $400 million to boost school maintenance and improvements, including $86.9 million to deliver the final tranches of the Cool the Schools program and minor works election commitments;
  * $96.2 million to expand capacity at four schools;
  * $78.2 million to deliver major upgrades at six schools;
  * $68.4 million for land and early works for the new Alkimos North Senior High School;
  * $66.9 million for additional classroom capacity in public schools; and
  * an allocation of $5 million over 2026-27 to 2027-28 from the Climate Action Fund towards the Schools Clean Energy Technology Fund.


To support the investment in education maintenance and improvements, $39.9 million has been provisioned from the Public Education Endowment Trust, with release of these funds subject to the passage of the Public Education Endowment Repeal Bill 2025 through State Parliament.   

These significant investments will mean that, between now and 2030, this State Government will open 11 new primary schools and two new high schools.
Since 2017-18, the State Government has opened 30 new primary schools and eight new secondary schools, with investment in school infrastructure estimated to total $6.4 billion investment out to 2029-30.
This State Budget also builds on the Cook Labor Government's provision of significant cost-of- living relief for Western Australian families, with a new $89.5 million round of the successful Western Australian Student Assistance Payment set to provide $150 for every primary and kindergarten-aged student, and $250 for each secondary school student.   

This State Budget also continues the Cook Labor Government's commitment to supporting students with additional needs in our schools and providing them with opportunities to learn, contribute, and participate.
An additional $310.1 million has been committed over the forward estimates to support students with disability. 
In a WA-first, $15.7 million will be provided to establish a new Disability and Inclusion Professional Learning Hub to improve disability support training for WA educators and school staff.
The State Budget also features $23.5 million additional investment towards support and wellbeing initiatives for Western Australian students, including students with English as an additional language or dialect, Aboriginal students, and specialist schools. 
A further $6.5 million from Royalties for Regions will extend the delivery of the Kimberley Schools Project, supporting principals and teachers to deliver education tailored to the specific needs of students in the Kimberley region.
The Cook Labor Government is also providing an additional $7.7 million to further strengthen delivery of high-quality swimming and water safety programs across the State and continue building WA's swimming instructor workforce. 
To complement this, a $600,000 trial will be set up - in collaboration with Royal Life Saving Society WA - to make three more public school pools available for community use and swimming and water safety programs.
An additional WA Certificate of Education pathway will also be developed for priority students to provide them with greater learning opportunities, with $6.9 million allocated.
The 2026-27 Budget will also continue to support initiatives to reduce teacher workload, with $4.6 million invested to continue the WA ClassmAIte generative AI platform pilot.
A total of $33.2 million will go towards supporting non-government schools, in line with the State's commitments under the Better and Fairer Schools Agreement. 
For more information, visit [ourstatebudget.wa.gov.au](https://www.ourstatebudget.wa.gov.au/).
**Comments attributed to Premier Roger Cook:**
"My government is prioritising quality services for all Western Australians.
"That way, we can support a high quality of life for all Western Australians, no matter where they live.
"That's exactly what this Budget will deliver for WA.
"Our responsible Budget management has kept WA's economy the strongest in the nation so we can continue investing in education and early childhood development."
**Comments attributed to Education Minister Sabine Winton:**
"The Cook Labor Government is committed to investing in WA's incredible public schools, education workforce, and young people.
"Our investment in school infrastructure in this year's State Budget builds on our significant work to not only cater for growing communities but improve existing facilities in our older schools as well.
"We are also committed to supporting our dedicated teachers, education assistants and principals, with $15.7 million for a new Disability and Inclusion Professional Learning Hub to deliver high-quality training and help drive better outcomes for every student.
"Our public schools are at the heart of their communities, and these investments will help deliver the right conditions for WA school students to thrive, no matter where they live."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
7 May 2026 
Ministers
###  [ Hon. Roger Cook ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Roger%20Cook)
Premier; Minister for State Development; Trade and Investment; Economic Diversification 
###  [ Hon. Sabine Winton ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Sabine%20Winton)
Minister for Education; Early Childhood; Preventative Health; Wheatbelt 
[See all media statements from this Government](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government)
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](https://subscribe.dpc.wa.gov.au)
