# WA leads national push for stronger eRideable laws
The Cook Government has committed to nation-leading eRideable safety reforms as it calls on the Commonwealth to close regulatory gaps that allow overpowered, unsafe, and modifiable devices into the country. 
  * Cook Government announces nation-leading eRideable safety reforms in response to Parliamentary Inquiry
  * Support or support-in-principle for 32 of 33 recommendations in Ride Safe report
  * Commonwealth urged to close regulatory gaps which enable overpowered, unsafe, and modifiable eRideable devices into the country
  * Operation Moorhead enforcement tactics targeting dangerous and antisocial behaviour rolled out when required across State


The Cook Government has committed to nation-leading eRideable safety reforms as it calls on the Commonwealth to close regulatory gaps that allow overpowered, unsafe, and modifiable devices into the country.
Responding to the Community Development and Justice Standing Committee Ride Safe report, the Cook Government supports or supports-in-principle 32 of the 33 recommendations, with one recommendation noted.
The inquiry was held in June 2025 following a pedestrian fatality involving the use of an e-scooter hired under a shared scheme. The inquiry scope was then extended to include all electric powered mobility devices after the death of a pedestrian involving the non-compliant use of an unregistered e-dirt bike.
Among supported recommendations is the Cook Government-led proposal to develop national device standards and classification of electric mobility devices in partnership with other Australian jurisdictions. These standards are a vital step to enable the devices to be properly regulated throughout the country for the first time.
  
Enforcement tactics used in the successful Operation Moorhead, will also be rolled out, when required, across the State to crack down on dangerous and antisocial behaviour.
The government response supports action on safer devices and clearer rules and education, including support or in-principle support for:
  * the development of minimum safety and other obligations for electric mobility devices, focused on hire schemes;
  * designated dismount zones that may include Protected Entertainment Precincts;
  * empowering local governments to declare other areas as dismount zones;
  * ensuring eRideables are treated as motor vehicles in respect of alcohol and drug testing;
  * a review of penalties to reflect the increase in eRideable device use and the risks associated with non-compliance;
  * the delivery of eRideable device education across all schools in Western Australia, including continued and expanded delivery of current programs;
  * the creation of more and better spaces for riders of eRideable devices and increasing the amenity and safety of other users of the same infrastructure;
  * additional research to inform current and future strategies impacting e-riders, with a focus on the integration of eRideable devices into active transport networks; and
  * continuation of high-profile road safety media campaigns on eRideable devices, with new campaigns needed to address new categories of devices.


The Cook Government is calling on the Commonwealth to undertake urgent national reform to close regulatory gaps, including tougher import controls, prohibitions on device tampering, strengthened national classifications, mandatory speed limits and speed-limiting technology, and the introduction of audible alert systems as standard.
Commonwealth action is critical to ensure overpowered devices can be blocked from entering the country and strong standards put in place to prevent dangerous, high-speed modifications.
Overpowered devices remain illegal for public use in Western Australia and WA Police continue to seize and crush these devices.
The push for stronger e-rideable laws is part of the Cook Government's commitment to building safe and inclusive communities so that all Western Australians feel safe at home, work and in the community. 
**Comments attributed to Transport Minister Rita Saffioti:**
"Our government is committed to improving the safety and regulation of e-mobility devices for riders, pedestrians, and road users in Western Australia.
"We're proud to be leading the establishment of a national framework for e-mobility devices, with co-ordinated national reforms needed to crack down on dangerous and illegal behaviour.
"That's why we're calling for the Commonwealth's support to address critical issues with the importation, modification and regulation of these devices across the country."
**Comments attributed to Minister Assisting the****Transport Minister Jessica Stojkovski:**
"The Cook Government's response to the Ride Safe report has a strong focus on community safety while supporting the growth of safe e-mobility use as a convenient and sustainable transport option. 
"Western Australia will establish and lead a national e-mobility framework to develop national device standards and classification of electric mobility devices in partnership with other Australian jurisdictions.
"Western Australia is now calling on the Commonwealth to support our reforms by closing the national gaps which continue to allow overpowered, unsafe and modifiable devices into the country."
**Comments attributed to Road Safety Minister Reece Whitby:**
"The Cook Government is committed to ensuring the Western Australian community is safe and our response to the Ride Safe report shows we're taking the crack down on eRideables seriously.
"These devices do have a place in our community - but they can be dangerous and should not be treated as toys.
"Earlier this year, WA Police ran the highly successful Operation Moorhead, a dedicated taskforce targeting dangerous behaviour on eRideables by seizing and crushing these devices - where they are threatening community safety.
"WA Police can now roll out enforcement tactics and strategies used in the Operation Moorhead when required, to continue removing this dangerous and antisocial behaviour in our community"
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
10 March 2026 
Ministers
###  [ Hon. Rita Saffioti ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Rita%20Saffioti)
Deputy Premier; Treasurer; Minister for Transport; Sport and Recreation 
###  [ Hon. Reece Whitby ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Reece%20Whitby)
Minister for Police; Road Safety; Tourism; Great Southern 
###  [ Hon. Jessica Stojkovski ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Jessica%20Stojkovski)
Minister for Child Protection; Prevention of Family and Domestic Violence; Minister Assisting the Minister for Transport; Peel 
[See all media statements from this Government](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government)
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](https://subscribe.dpc.wa.gov.au)
