Search keyword
Search
27 February 2026
Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, the Hon Julie Collins  
Minister for Emergency Management, the Hon Kristy McBain  
Queensland Minister for Disaster Recovery, the Hon Ann Leahy MP  
Queensland Minister for Primary Industries, the Hon Tony Perrett MP
* * *
  * Concessional loans have been increased to up to $2 million for primary producers impacted by the recent northern Queensland floods.
  * Disaster assistance has been activated for flood affected primary producers in the Barcaldine and Cassowary Coast local government areas.
  * Support also expanded for producers in Central Highlands, Livingstone Shire and Whitsunday, including Disaster Recovery Grants up to $75,000.


Disaster loans from the Albanese and Crisafulli Governments have been increased to up to $2 million for primary producers hardest hit by this summer’s flood disaster.  
  
Originally capped at $250,000, the concessional loan ceiling for producers has increased to $2 million, acknowledging the devastating impacts of the North Queensland Monsoon Trough and ex-Tropical Cyclone Koji.  
  
Loans can be used to repair or replace damaged plant, equipment or farm buildings, purchase replacement livestock, for re-planting and restoration activities, and for rents and rates to sustain a business.  
  
This increase is being delivered through the joint Commonwealth-state Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA).  
DRFA assistance has also been activated for primary producers in the Barcaldine and Cassowary Coast regions to guide their recovery, including disaster loans and freight subsidies up to $5,000.  
  
In addition, producers in the Barcaldine, Cassowary Coast, Central Highlands, Livingstone and Whitsunday regions can now apply for Disaster Recovery Grants up to $75,000 to fund clean-up, repairs and resupply.  
  
Eligibility has also been expanded to Central Highlands for the Primary Producer Industry Support Package, which provides financial and personal counselling, feral pest and locust management, and industry recovery and resilience officers.  
  
In further recognition of the expanding impact of the floods, a $4.26 million Mental Health Program, first announced in mid-January, will be extended to residents in Hope Vale and Wujal Wujal to fund psychosocial health and wellbeing initiatives for vulnerable members of the community.  
  
Federal Minister for Emergency Management Kristy McBain said supporting primary producers is critical to making sure regional flood recovery is effective.  
  
“The work of Queensland farmers is central to food security and a strong economy, for both the state and our nation,” Minister McBain said.  
  
“Making disaster assistance available to these producers recognises the heartbreaking losses they have suffered and the important role they play in keeping communities functioning and recovery progressing.”  
  
Federal Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry Julie Collins said expanding the support available to impacted farmers and primary producers in North and Far North Queensland would provide them with more flexibility as they move to longer-term recovery.   
  
“Having been on the ground in Queensland last week to see the impact to livestock, crops fences and equipment, I know how important it is to have a range of support options available to help our farmers and producers rebuild,” Minister Collins said.  
  
“Expanding the immediate support available to farmers and primary producers in North and Far North Queensland will ensure they can replace equipment and livestock, and get on with the critical job of producing the food and fibre communities rely on.”   
  
Queensland Minister for Disaster Recovery Ann Leahy said identifying the areas that require more assistance and providing further support remained a priority for the Crisafulli Government.  
  
“An enormous effort has already ensured much needed funding support is going where it needs to, but we know the job is not finished,” Minister Leahy said.  
  
“By supporting all flood-affected communities, we’re helping Queenslanders recover faster, with increased loans and Disaster Recovery Grants providing critical support when it’s needed most.”  
  
Queensland Minister for Primary Industries, Tony Perrett said the expansion of support to more areas and the increased value of recovery support now available is an acknowledgement of the need primary producers are experiencing.  
  
“Primary producers can have confidence we are attuned to their immediate and long-term challenges presented by this flooding, and we are working in partnership with the Federal Government to deliver targeted and appropriate support.”  
  
“I encourage farmers and graziers to contact Queensland Rural Industry Development Authority (QRIDA) for guidance about what this new assistance means for their operations.”  
  
Producers can get more information on disaster loans and recovery grants via   
  
For more details about freight subsidies and primary producer industry support, contact Queensland’s Department of Primary Industries on 13 25 23.
