  * Council of the EU 
  * Statements and remarks
  * 5 March 2026 13:45


  1. The Foreign Ministers of the Gulf Cooperation Council and the European Union held an extraordinary meeting on 5 March 2026 to discuss the escalation in the Middle East and Iran's inexcusable attacks against the GCC countries.
  2. The GCC side was headed by His Excellency Dr. Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bahrain and Chairman of the current session of the GCC Ministerial Council. His Excellency Jassim Mohammed Al-Budaiwi, Secretary-General of the GCC and the Foreign Ministers of the GCC Member Countries. The European side was headed by Her Excellency Kaja Kallas, High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Vice-President of the European Commission, with the participation of Her Excellency Dubravka Šuica and the Foreign Ministers of EU member states.
  3. The Ministers underscored the significance of the strategic partnership between the EU and the GCC, established under the 1988 Cooperation Agreement and re-confirmed with the EU-GCC Brussels Summit in October 2024.
  4. The Ministers strongly condemned the unjustifiable Iranian attacks against the GCC countries which threaten regional and global security and called on Iran to cease immediately its attacks.
  5. The European Union reaffirmed its solidarity with the countries of the GCC.
  6. The Ministers reiterated their commitment to regional stability and called for protection of civilians and full respect of international law, international humanitarian law and the obligation to abide by the principles of the United Nations Charter.
  7. The Ministers recalled that they consistently urged Iran to curb its nuclear programme and ballistic missile programme, refrain from destabilising activities in the region and in Europe, and to cease the appalling violence against its own people.
  8. The Ministers discussed the significant damage caused by the recent indiscriminate Iranian attacks against the GCC member states, which targeted civilian infrastructure, including oil facilities, service facilities and residential areas, resulting in material damage and threatening the security, safety and lives of civilians.
  9. The Ministers highlighted the extensive diplomatic efforts by the EU and its Member States and the GCC member states prior to the attacks, as well the latter’s commitment that their territories would not be used to launch attacks against Iran.
  10. The Ministers reaffirmed their unwavering commitment to dialogue and diplomacy as means to resolve the crisis, commending the constructive role of Oman in this regard, and highlighted the need to restore regional stability and security.
  11. The Ministers recalled the inherent right of the GCC countries, in accordance with Article 51 of the UN Charter, to defend themselves, individually and collectively, against the armed attacks of Iran. They affirmed that the GCC states have the right to take all necessary measures to defend their security and stability and protect their territories, citizens and residents in order to restore international peace and security. The Ministers recalled the responsibility of the UN Security Council in restoring and maintaining international peace and security.
  12. The Ministers agreed to joint diplomatic efforts to bring about a lasting solution to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, to cease production and proliferation of ballistic missiles, unmanned aerial vehicles and any technologies that threaten the security of the region and beyond, as well as to refrain from destabilising activities in the region and in Europe, and ultimately allow the Iranian people to determine their future.
  13. The Ministers reaffirmed the importance of safeguarding regional air space, maritime routes, and freedom of navigation, including in the Strait of Hormuz and Bab-el-Mandeb, as well as the safety and security of supply chains and the stability of global energy markets.
  14. The Ministers stressed that the security and stability of the Gulf region are fundamental pillars of the stability of the global economy, intrinsically linked to European and global security.
  15. In that context, the Ministers recognised the importance of EU maritime defensive operation ASPIDES and operation ATALANTA to protect critical waterways and reduce disruption to supply chains, and encouraged coordination for the support of the operations. The Ministers also stressed the need to safeguard regional airspace and maritime routes, as well as energy security and nuclear safety.
  16. The European Union thanked the GCC member states for the hospitality and assistance provided to nationals from the EU on their soil. The European Union and its member states will continue to make every effort to allow for the safe departure of their citizens in close cooperation with the GCC member states.


[ ](


If you are not a journalist, please [send your request to the public information service](
**Topics**


  * Subscribe to press releases 


Last review: 5 March 2026
