# Housing Delivery Authority sets new 60-day clock on EOIs
03 June 2026 
The Housing Delivery Authority (HDA) was established to drive the delivery of more homes, and more affordable homes, in NSW and that remains its focus.
Following the permanent inclusion of the HDA in the planning system we’re introducing a performance standard so EOIs must be reviewed in 60 days, starting from July 1.
This will help deliver more homes, faster– from first submitting an EOI to getting keys in the doors of new homes.
The HDA’s main objectives and focus remain on delivery.
Feasibility has always been a key consideration of the HDA in its recommendations, and updates to the criteria will make sure that feasibility remains a key factor in its considerations.
The Minns Labor Government wants to see more homes and affordable homes built right across the state, but it must be done in a way that maintains project feasibility or it will have the opposite effect.
The HDA continues to welcome all EOIs and will consider all projects which present a compelling case to drive the delivery of more homes in NSW.
To date on the recommendation of the HDA 351 proposals have been declared State Significant Development, which could create more than 117,000 homes.
Seven of these proposals have been approved, unlocking more than 1800 homes, including four projects which were concurrently rezoned and approved in Caringbah, Ermington, St Peters and Neutral Bay.
State significant development applications have been lodged for a further 47 projects representing around 19,100 potential homes.
For more information on the HDA visit [Housing Delivery Authority](https://www.planning.nsw.gov.au/policy-and-legislation/housing/housing-delivery-authority "Housing Delivery Authority").
