# Lotterywest grants supporting creative spaces across WA
Western Australia's creative sector is benefitting from $10 million in grants delivered to 41 organisations as part of Lotterywest's Arts and Culture Infrastructure Grant Program. 
  * Lotterywest grants totalling $10 million to support upgrades for arts and culture infrastructure and spaces across the State
  * Aligning with the Cook Labor Government's 'Creative WA' roadmap, funding will address the sector's infrastructure, equipment and technology needs 
  * A further $20 million in grants will be delivered across the next two financial years 
  * Cook Labor Government fostering a vibrant and creative economy


Western Australia's creative sector is benefitting from $10 million in grants delivered to 41 organisations as part of Lotterywest's Arts and Culture Infrastructure Grant Program.
Aligning with the Cook Labor Government's 'Creative WA' roadmap, this targeted funding aims to deliver essential infrastructure, venue and rehearsal room refurbishments, equipment and technology upgrades across the sector. 
Improvements will breathe new life into creative spaces and equip organisations with modern tools to deliver meaningful arts and cultural experiences that enrich WA communities.
From arts and culture institutions to small regional hubs, grants are supporting a variety of organisations and addressing the sector's diverse needs, including building upgrades, audio-visual equipment and touring rigs. 
Funding will strengthen WA's creative economy by supporting greater community participation in cultural activities and support the long‑term growth and sustainability of the sector.
Almost half of the total $10 million in funding is supporting organisations in WA's regions. Grants have been delivered in the South West, Gascoyne, Wheatbelt, Goldfields-Esperance, Mid West, Great Southern, Peel and Kimberley regions - reaching as far as Warburton, where more than $420,000 will support a new cultural and creative space for the community.
The Performing Arts Centre Society has secured a $495,000 grant from Lotterywest towards the refurbishment and technical upgrades of the Blue Room Theatre and Perth Institute of Contemporary Arts has received $328,477. 
A grant of more than $280,000 has been delivered to the City of Fremantle to upgrade the heritage‑listed Victoria Hall. Improvements will equip the venue with modern infrastructure to host accessible performances and community activities in a space that honours its historic character.
Lotterywest's Arts and Culture Infrastructure Grant Program will continue to strengthen the sector, with a further $20 million to be delivered through grant rounds across the next two financial years. 
**Comments attributed to Premier Roger Cook:**
"Western Australia is home to a host of vibrant arts and culture organisations that deliver enriching programs, displays, festivals and initiatives for the WA community to enjoy.
"Meaningful investment in infrastructure, equipment and technology within these spaces will create long-lasting benefits for WA's creative sector, supporting local artists and strengthening arts and culture in our regions. 
"Arts and cultural initiatives play an important role in bringing communities together, creating shared experiences and fostering a vibrant and creative community."
**Comments attributed to Creative Industries Minister Simone McGurk:**
"This program is helping to build a strong and sustainable future for Western Australia's creative industries. 
"It is exciting to see the outcomes from this first round of the program which will help deliver fit-for-purpose spaces for creative activity and presentation across the State. 
"Through supporting upgrades to spaces and access to new equipment and technology, this funding is helping our WA creatives focus on the creation and delivery of their work. It is also helping to deliver a better experience for our audiences - not just in Perth but also our regional areas.
"These grants will help increase productivity and participation in creative, cultural and arts activity."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
22 April 2026 
Ministers
###  [ Hon. Roger Cook ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Roger%20Cook)
Premier; Minister for State Development; Trade and Investment; Economic Diversification 
###  [ Hon. Simone McGurk ](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government?ministers\[0\]=Hon.%20Simone%20McGurk)
Minister for Creative Industries; Heritage; Industrial Relations; Aged Care and Seniors; Women 
[See all media statements from this Government](https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook-Labor-Government)
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](https://subscribe.dpc.wa.gov.au)
