# 
Human rights violations in Russia, Niger and Georgia
Press Releases
[ Plenary session](https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en?contentType=plenary)
Today
## 
Share this page:
  * Russia must end the coercive recruitment of foreign nationals for its brutal war of aggression against Ukraine, which may constitute a crime against humanity.
  * Parliament calls for the immediate release of democratically elected President Mohamed Bazoum in Niger and condemns the repression carried out by the junta.
  * MEPs condemn the systematic persecution of opponents by the Georgian Dream party and call on the EU to impose targeted sanctions on representatives of the regime.


On Thursday, Parliament adopted three resolutions on the human rights situations in Russia, Niger and Georgia.
**Human trafficking and grave human rights violations linked to the recruitment of non-Russian nationals, in particular from African countries, for Russia’s war in Ukraine  
  
** MEPs call on the EU and its Member States to impose targeted sanctions on individuals and entities responsible for human trafficking carried out by Russia to wage its brutal, unprovoked, unjustified and illegal war of aggression against Ukraine.  
  
The resolution refers to the use of deceptive recruitment methods, including through social media content for job or education offers, particularly in various African countries, Cuba and South and Central Asia. The increasing use of deceptive recruitment tactics coincides with Russia's growing influence in African states, MEPs add.  
  
They stress that these practices may constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity and call on social media platforms to take responsibility and cooperate with the authorities to identify and remove content used by Russian-linked recruitment networks. They point out that hundreds of female victims are believed to have been deceived into working in drone assembly factories, and refer to the disappearance of certain nationals, such as Francis Ndung'u Ndarua. MEPs call for his repatriation and urge Russia to inform his relatives of his whereabouts and state of health.  
  
The resolution was adopted by 479 votes for, 17 against with 43 abstentions.  
  
**The arbitrary detention of President Mohamed Bazoum by the junta in Niger  
  
** Parliament condemns the repression of political actors, journalists and civil society in Niger since the military junta took power and calls for the immediate release of democratically elected President Mohamed Bazoum and all those detained since the coup in 2023.  
  
MEPs stress that the security and humanitarian situation in the country has deteriorated significantly since then, citing an increase in human and arms trafficking and irregular migration flows across the Sahel.  
  
The continuity and accessibility of humanitarian aid in conflict zones in Niger must be guaranteed, MEPs say, expressing deep concern at the country's announced intention to withdraw from the International Criminal Court. They also point to a worrying regression of democracy and human rights in the Sahel. They call for the restoration of democratic order, including the reinstatement of political parties and the organisation of free and fair elections in Niger.  
  
The resolution was adopted by 524 votes for, 2 against with 29 abstentions.  
  
**The case of Elene Khoshtaria and political prisoners under the Georgian Dream regime in Georgia  
  
** MEPs condemn the systematic persecution carried out in Georgia by the Georgian Dream party against its political opponents and journalists, and strongly condemn the political detention of Elene Khoshtaria, a member of the Coalition for Change, who was arrested in September. They call for her release and denounce the degrading and inhumane treatment she has reportedly suffered during her detention.  
  
MEPs also demand an independent and transparent investigation into other national security abuses, citing credible reports of the use of chemical weapons against protesters. They express deep concern over the continued detention and deteriorating health condition of former President Mikheil Saakashvili, who for more than four years has effectively been held as a political hostage.They call on the EU to impose targeted sanctions and an EU-wide visa ban on representatives of the regime and its enablers.  
  
The existence of political prisoners is incompatible with Georgia's obligations under the EU-Georgia Association Agreement, say MEPs, who reaffirm their unwavering support for the Georgian people and their commitment to a democratic, European future. In December 2025, Parliament awarded the [Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought to Georgian journalist Mzia Amaglobeli](https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20251211IPR32165/2025-sakharov-prize-parliament-honours-andrzej-poczobut-and-mzia-amaglobeli), who is currently imprisoned in Georgia.  
  
The resolution was adopted by 438 votes for, 37 against and 81 abstentions.
  

## 
Contacts:
  * ###  Elodie LABORIE
Press Officer (FR)
Contact data:


## 
Further information
  * [Watch the replay of the plenary debates (11.3.26)](https://www.europarl.europa.eu/plenary/en/vod.html?mode=chapter&vodLanguage=EN&internalEPId=2017065672784&providerMeetingId=20260311-0900-PLENARY "Open in a new page")
  * [The adopted texts will be available here (12.03.26)](https://www.europarl.europa.eu/plenary/en/texts-adopted.html "Open in a new page")
  * [Multimedia products](https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en "Open in a new page")


## 
Product information
Ref.: 20260306IPR37537
## 
Share this page:
[Sign up for mail updates](https://www.europarl.europa.eu/subscription/en)
[PDF version](https://www.europarl.europa.eu/pdfs/news/expert/2026/3/press_release/20260306IPR37537/20260306IPR37537_en.pdf)
  *[Ref.:]: Product reference
