# Housing Delivery Authority 12 month review finalised as pipeline grows to 117,000 homes
13 May 2026 
A further eleven projects, in metropolitan Sydney, have been declared as State Significant Development following recommendations from the Housing Delivery Authority (HDA).
If all are lodged and approved, this could create approximately 3,340 homes including affordable housing.
At the same time the criteria for expressions of interest are being updated, following the 12-month review of the HDA.
The changes, which are effective from today include:
  * A new estimated development cost threshold of $60 million for projects in Newcastle and Wollongong, bringing them into line with the thresholds for Greater Sydney and better reflecting what constitutes state significant development in these areas.
  * A requirement for affordable housing offerings to align or exceed existing council or State policies and in the case of concurrent rezonings, be proportionate to the development outcome proposed.
  * Formalising land use exclusions for some locations in line with strategic planning including the commercial cores of the Sydney, North Sydney and Parramatta CBDs and regionally significant industrial land.


To date the HDA has declared 351 proposals which could create more than 117,000 homes.
Six of these proposals have been approved, unlocking more than 1400 homes, including three projects which were concurrently rezoned and approved in Caringbah, Ermington and Neutral Bay.
State significant development applications have been lodged for a further 46 projects representing 16,199 potential homes.
Recommendations from the HDA are published as required under the _Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979_ before the SSD declaration.
The Ministerial Order can be [found here(link is external)](https://www.planningportal.nsw.gov.au/Orders).
A summary of the 12 month review can be [found here](https://www.planning.nsw.gov.au/sites/default/files/2026-05/summary-housing-delivery-authority-12-month-review.pdf).
Updated 13 May 2026 
