**MADELEINE KING, MINISTER FOR RESOURCES:** Good morning everyone. Can I say, it's a delight to have the Prime Minister, my friend Anthony Albanese, back here in Perth for, I think it's his 40-something-th time. Thanks so much for being here today, Prime Minister. And also to my very good friend, the Premier of Western Australia, Roger Cook, and my other very good friend here today, Deputy Premier, Minister for Infrastructure and many other things, Rita Saffioti. It really is a great announcement that the Prime Minister will take you through in a moment around over $500 million of investment from the Federal Government combining to add up to a total of over $1 billion of federal-state commitments to the road upgrades for the Anketell Road industrial area. I want to take a moment to quickly thank my Federal Cabinet colleague, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Catherine King, who has supported this project. She understands how important this road infrastructure is for Western Australia.
Now, last night I travelled from the airport along the road this morning. I travelled along Anketell Road once again to get here to the city. I visit the Kwinana industrial area very often as the Member for Brand, the powerhouse of Western Australian's economy for many decades, continuing to this day. This upgrade will change lives. It will change the ability of transport and our truckies to get commodities into that area out. But for all the times, I know the Premier has witnessed this himself as many others have, you can get stuck in traffic at the end of a shift getting out of Kwinana. The many hundreds of workers there can get stuck at the end of the day for around 40 to 50 minutes. It's endlessly frustrating. So, this is a game changer for all those workers in Kwinana as well as those really important road transport links from that industrial area over toward Abercrombie Road and Rockingham Road. So, I want to thank the Prime Minister for his commitment to Kwinana and to Western Australia and to making their economic powerhouse just even be bigger and better. And so with that, I will hand over to our Prime Minister. Thank you.
**ANTHONY ALBANESE, PRIME MINISTER:** Well, thanks very much, Mads, and it is great to be back here in Western Australia. Today, we made two significant announcements. Firstly, $45 million which will help to fast track the process to have single approvals for environmental projects to make a difference going forward. $45 million over four years to progress bilateral agreements with states and territories to reduce duplication. Investment will encourage state and territory governments to prioritise progressing and signing new assessment approvals, bilateral agreements, but also the actual approvals as well as the second stage. And last week, the Premier and Minister Watt signed an agreement, an MOU to progress the first stage of that. We want to make sure this gets done. This is about productivity improvements. It's about quicker Yes or Nos, which is what industry really wants, whether it is resources projects, housing projects, infrastructure projects, to make a difference going forward as well.
Strong environmental safeguards will remain in place with projects required to meet the Commonwealth's environmental standards, and all bilateral agreements will be subject to assurance by the new National Environmental Protection Agency, which will commence its work on 1 July this year. This is landmark performance following on from the legislation we passed last year, putting it into practise that view that we had very strongly, which is that our environmental laws were not fit for purpose. They weren't fit for protecting the environment. They weren't fit for giving business and industry certainty to progress. And this is about common sense reforms to remove duplication and to deliver environmental outcomes that are clear and consistent. In addition to that, as Madeleine has said, a very excited local member, $1.1 billion for crucial road connections to the proposed future Westport container terminal in Kwinana. Joint funding, $552 million from each level of government, to get this done.
On top of productivity and making a difference, better roads are also safer roads. They make a difference for people, whether they be local residents to get around, or whether it be the workforce to get around. Moving people and freight will be far more efficient as a result of this joint commitment, consistent with the strong partnership that my Government has with the government here in Western Australia to make a difference in recognition that WA is a driving force of our national economy. It will continue to be so for the period ahead and these partnerships are so important moving forward. And I'll hand over to the Premier and then Minister Saffioti.
**ROGER COOK, PREMIER OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA:** Thank you, Prime Minister. Well, there's two local members that are very excited about today's announcement. And Western Australia's economy remains the strongest in the nation. And to keep it that way, the Westport and the Western Trade Coast will play a crucial role in ensuring that we continue to drive the local economy, the local economy that supports the national economy. As part of our upcoming budget, I am proud to announce that our government will invest $552 million alongside the Commonwealth in upgrades to road for a total of $1.1 billion. This is a major project which will help deliver Westport, important early works to ensure that we have the corridors and the transport infrastructure necessary to support not only the construction, but the operation of Westport. And Westport will be crucial for ensuring Western Australian economy stays strong. It will boost long-term trade and economic growth support, housing supply, and improved productivity in the defence and critical industries.
And this funding will deliver the first stage of significant upgrades of Anketell Road. It includes expanding the road to four lanes between Leaf Road and Abercrombie Road and grade separation of Rockingham Road, and it will provide significant support to local traffic. And as Madeleine says, and we're both very familiar with the congestion that you build around that area, particularly at the beginning and end of shifts. So, this is going to be an important opportunity to ensure that we improve significantly the transport infrastructure which supports the Western Trade Coast, which is a key part of the local economy. And it will support our joint $700 million commitment towards the upgrade of Kwinana freeway, which will be a crucial entry point to the Western Trade Coast as well. To support Westport, I can also announce today that my government will commit a further $118 million in the upcoming budget.
That funding will include funding for land acquisitions to enable road construction, planning for marine import infrastructure, and funding of Westport's current operations over the next four years. Together, these investments will ensure WA can become a renewable energy superpower by continuing to ensure that we have the necessary industry infrastructure and the transport infrastructure that supports it. Westport will be a national significant project, and it's one about which we are very proud. It's a long-term project, work has begun, and we are really starting to see progress. And we're making progress under the leadership of the Transport Minister and Deputy Premier Rita Saffioti, and I now hand you over to her.
**RITA SAFFIOTI, DEPUTY PREMIER:** Thank you very much. Just some quick comments. We very much welcome and appreciate the partnership with the Prime Minister, with the Federal Minister for Infrastructure, Catherine King, and of course the very active local member, Madeleine King, too, in delivering what will be an incredible project for West Australia's economic future. As we know, we need a new container port and the Kwinana project is very much a part of our economic future. The $552 million for the Commonwealth will be partnered with the state with another $552 million, as we said, over a billion dollars, in the Anketell project. This is a necessary part in both delivering improved efficiency, reducing congestion, improving safety for the entire precinct. It's also a key part of helping to deliver Westport with these road upgrades being an essential link to enable the construction of the new port. As we've done through Metronet, that partnership is delivering incredible benefits to Western Australians. This is another major partnership for the future, not only the road and rail infrastructure, but as we move forward to deliver a new container port for Western Australia, as I said, to helps ensure Western Australia's economic future. Thank you.
**JOURNALIST:** So, industry and indeed the Premier have also been asking for certainty on tax. Last year during the election campaign, you promised quote, "no new additional taxes on resources", but this morning you're going to guarantee the Budget won't impact current contracts. Why not today rule out a windfall profits tax on gas? And if you don't, is that a broken promise?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, there have been no windfall profits. Gas prices remain the same as they've been. So, some of this debate you've fallen into with the question. We've made very clear our position. The only thing I am concentrating on when it comes to fuel is supply.
**JOURNALIST:** You spoke a little bit about, during the gas conversation in there, about the East Coast reserve. Do you think that is sufficient going forward in terms of reform around gas or is that going to do enough?
**PRIME MINISTER:** I think that will be really important , and we're working it through. Australians want to ensure that they have access to their gas, and WA had the foresight and under a previous state government to make sure that that's occurred here in the West. We need to make sure that those supply issues are dealt with, and that's why last year we put forward, Mads might want to add to this, put forward an announcement. We're working through the details of that, and those details aren't far away from announcement.
**JOURNALIST:** So, is it a new reserve? Rather, it's that new east coast reserve rather than any tax on gas?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, that's what we are pursuing. We are pursuing that because that is the right thing to do. We've announced that. And one of the things my Government does is work through with industry, because we recognise the importance of that certainty.
**JOURNALIST:** Now inflation is really hurting, will you pump the brakes on government spending to save the economy?
**PRIME MINISTER:** We've put, $114 billion of savings already we've made. That's $114 billion more than the former government had in their last budget, because they had zero. What they had was just spending without any savings whatsoever. What we've done is make sure that we've handed down responsible budgets. We've handed down two budget surpluses and smaller deficits as a result of savings, and we'll see further savings in the Budget on 12 May.
**JOURNALIST:** Bill Shorten said that he would have been successful in selling capital gains tax and negative gearing changes if he had rolled those savings into income tax cuts. Does that idea have merit, was he right to say that?
**PRIME MINISTER:** 2019 was a long time ago. You'll see our Budget on 12 May, and it will be a Budget handed down that I think I'll be very proud of. We'll make sure that we deliver consistent with Labor principles, making sure the economy grows, making sure that productivity benefits, we'll make sure that there are savings in there, but we also want an economy that works for people, not people working for an economy.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, you talked about instability at the moment in the Middle East. Have you spoken to the White House in the last, say, two weeks about the situation?
**PRIME MINISTER:** We speak regularly with the White House.
**JOURNALIST:** The US Government has requested Australia to help repatriate the ISIS brides, so, shut that camp in Syria. Will Australia look at that and will we comply with that request?
**PRIME MINISTER:** That's not a new statement. And one of the things I've said is that we are providing no support for repatriation and no assistance for these people.
**JOURNALIST:** During the talks with international partners to secure fuel, has the windfall tax at all come up as a danger for them and have you been able to provide them any reassurance that that's not something we're going to do?
**PRIME MINISTER:** No, it hasn't come up. What we've been talking about is Australia is a reliable supplier of energy. That's what we do. That's our reputation. That's my reputation as well as Prime Minister, and I have good relationships with all of our partners. I look forward to welcoming the Japanese Prime Minister, who will arrive in Canberra on Sunday night. We'll have extensive meetings on Monday, and Prime Minister Takaichi will be a very welcome visitor in Australia.
**JOURNALIST:** You say there are no windfall profits at the moment. If there are, is it appropriate to look at how those profits are taxed? And somewhat related I suppose, your reaction to the UAE's decision to leave OPEC, and what do you expect the impact to be?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Two questions. On taxation issues, we had reforms of the PRRT. The PRRT reforms are designed so that there will be increased taxes paid over a period of time. That is in the design that we put in place in our first term. On the UAE - the UAE is a sovereign country. We have a very positive relationship with them. We have a free trade agreement with them. We're providing support for security of the UAE with our E-7 aircraft. I can confirm that we've had a changeover of aircraft in the region as well, consistent with what I had previously announced of an extension for a further four weeks. I think we did that about a week ago, and they are very appreciative of the fact that we are providing support for their defence. They're not protagonists in this war, nor is Australia, but we've provided defensive support for the UAE in the region. We have over 20,000 Australians based in the UAE, in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, and so we have a very direct interest as well as having support for our friends. MBZ I regard as being a friend of Australia and that relationship is of mutual benefit for us.
**JOURNALIST:** Would you front the Royal Commission into antisemitism if asked? Would you appear in front of the Royal Commission if asked?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, I haven't been asked.
**JOURNALIST:** Would you?
**PRIME MINISTER:** I haven't been asked.
**JOURNALIST:** On GST, Prime Minister, while the Treasurer's listening, if the Productivity Commission does recommend against the 75 cent floor, will you throw that report in the bin or could you head it off at the pass and guarantee extending the no worse off guarantee to stop the states bickering?
**PRIME MINISTER:** I have continually provided my support for the existing arrangements in WA, and I have not changed my position.
**JOURNALIST:** So, why not extend the guarantee for the state?
**PRIME MINISTER:** I have not changed my position.
**JOURNALIST:** Will you extend the guarantee for the state?
**PRIME MINISTER:** I've answered the question.
**JOURNALIST:** But you haven't ever answered the question on whether the no worse off guarantee needs to be extended.
**PRIME MINISTER:** I have answered the question, which is I support WA getting its fair share. I've been consistent about that. Ask me in 2029.
**JOURNALIST:** It's estimated around 1300 childcare centres aren't meeting federal standards. How can parents be sure their children are safe?
**PRIME MINISTER:** We want to make sure that that occurs. That's why our ministers have taken additional action of auditing and making sure that every parent should have the confidence that when their child's put into early learning, they are safe. Minister Clare has put in place measures to make sure that there's increased scrutiny. We'll continue to do that because every parent should have that confidence.
**JOURNALIST:** We saw a security breach there today with protestors coming in, and given the events at the White House Correspondents' Dinner last night, is that sort of thing really acceptable today?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Look, security for people in public life is an issue. There are a range of people who've been charged, issues related to myself and others. There's an increased environment. I continue to say, people have a right to protest by all means and express their views, but they should do so in a way that is appropriate. And we work with security agencies on this. But I would say that we need also to, as I've said continually, we need to turn the temperature down on public debate. There is no need for some of the positions that are put forward in the manner in which they're forwarded as well. And it is of real concern. There's an upgrade going on at the moment at Kirribilli House that is substantial as a result of the increased environment, threats, which are there. They are real, they are real. And I say to everyone, regardless of your political position, we should be able to have discourse and have debate which is respectful. I don't duck from attending or from engaging in events like this and events this morning. And it's a good thing in Australia. I want to be able to go around and so do others in public life as well.
**JOURNALIST:** On the NDIS, Prime Minister, the Premier has been critical of the unilateral nature of Mark Butler's announcement last week. When will the modelling and the criteria actually be released so NDIS families will stop panicking?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, I think you are adding to it with some of your rhetoric there.
**JOURNALIST:** I can guarantee they're panicking.
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, yeah, but people need to listen to what we have said very clearly.
**JOURNALIST:** You've said 160,000 people will be kicked off and you haven't said what the criteria will be.
**PRIME MINISTER:** So, if you let me have an opportunity to answer, I will, which is that we've said very clearly, consistent with my philosophy of no one being left behind, no one will be removed without somewhere for them to go, without those measures put in place. One of the things that we're doing, which contradicts the basis of your questioning, is that we've said, and Mark Butler said at the National Press Club, we will talk with the states and territories, but we'll also talk with the sector. Part of the philosophy behind the NDIS is that empowerment. And so it's not up to us to just say unilaterally, here's what we're imposing. We'll talk with the sector. We've made that very clear, very, very clear as Mark Butler did at the Press Club.
**JOURNALIST:** The White House came out last night and opposed the news bargaining initiative where you're going to have [INDISTINCT], and they threatened the UK with tariffs for a similar issue. Do you guarantee that what you're proposing will go through and then you will push back against the White House, against the US on their implied threats of new tariffs on Australia for that?
**PRIME MINISTER:** I think that whether you're from Bloomberg or from the Fin or the West or Seven, your intellectual property, your work should be valued and someone shouldn't be able to take your work and make a profit from it without payment. That's intellectual property, that's creativity, that's hard work. And we've responded in a constructive way. We've done so in the News Bargaining Incentive. It will mean that 2.25 per cent of revenue will be paid if there aren't deals done, but we actually want deals to be done, which would reduce that down to 1.5 per cent to encourage those deals to be done as was occurring, that was the plan with the original measures put in place by the former government. It is essential. There's no difference, frankly, between that and someone coming in here and taking that camera and saying, "I'll just take that property." This is property that you are producing. I value your work. I respect the work that journalists do. It's why I try to make myself as accountable as possible and your work should be valued as an important part of a democracy. And an important point here is that every single dollar will go to news organisations based upon the number of journalists they employ. There is no revenue gain for the Commonwealth of this. This is about protecting you, and I hope that your profession, which is an honourable one, continues to be valued. My government values it. Thanks.
