The Albanese and Rockliff Governments are protecting jobs and critical manufacturing capability at Liberty Bell Bay during its administration process. 
EY have formally accepted both Governments offer to jointly provide a $3 million loan, on a 50:50 basis, to support workers while administrator EY continues to conduct an expedited sale of the facility. 
This support is about providing workers with more certainty in what has been a very difficult time for the community. 
It will keep the workforce in place, protecting jobs and specialist skills, as well as giving the facility the best chance of a successful sale and faster restart under a new owner. 
Liberty Bell Bay is Australia’s only domestic producer of manganese alloy, a critical input into steelmaking for defence, construction and mining. 
This support follows the Tasmanian Government providing a $20 million loan to purchase ore after commitments from GFG, the smelter’s owner, it would restart operations at Liberty. 
Despite the commitment from GFG, Liberty remained in limited operations until the administration process began. 
The Commonwealth and Tasmanian Governments will continue to work closely to support workers, safeguard Australia’s industrial resilience, and secure the best possible outcome for the facility and the Bell Bay community. 
## Quotes attributed to Anthony Albanese, Prime Minister 
"We’re backing the workers, their families and the community through this sale process because this facility and these jobs matter. 
“I thank the State Government and all local MPs for working with us to support Australian manufacturing. 
“We need to build more things here as a country – and that includes in Northen Tasmania.” 
## Quotes attributed to Jeremy Rockliff, Premier of Tasmania 
“We are in the corner of workers, their families and impacted small businesses. 
“Liberty is the only manganese smelter in the country, and we have invested to support the workers and keep this sovereign capability in Northern Tasmania. 
“Our Government established the Bell Bay Response Team and we provided a $20 million loan for ore to restart operations at Liberty. 
“We have been in regular communication with the Federal Government and worked with them to deliver this employee support package. 
“Tasmanian manufacturing jobs are critical to our community, our State and our Nation. 
“Recognising that there is still more to do, I want to thank everyone from all sections of the community for rallying around the workers to save Liberty Bell Bay. 
“Strong cooperation between State, Federal and Local Government has been really important to date and I want to thank our Liberal Members for Bass, Bridget Archer, Rob Fairs and Michael Ferguson, and local members for Windermere, Nick Duigan, and Rosevears, Jo Palmer, for their very strong advocacy and focus on the wellbeing and jobs of the local workers.” 
## Quotes attributed to Tim Ayres, Minister for Industry and Innovation and Minister for Science
“This is good news for the Bell Bay community – but I know there is more work to be done. 
“I look forward to a successful sale of Liberty Bell Bay – and welcome a new owner who will look after this facility for what it is: a critical part of the steelmaking supply chain. 
“I thank Jess Teesdale for advocating for her community, as well as the workers, unions and local suppliers, and the State Government, for pulling together to get this positive outcome.” 
