**ANTHONY ALBANESE, PRIME MINISTER:** Good afternoon. Today, we held a National Cabinet meeting and it was the third that we have had since the conflict in the Middle East began. It was a very constructive meeting, an important one, to provide the states and territories with updates from the Fuel Security Taskforce Commissioner, Anthea Harris, and also from Minister Bowen and myself. Australia remains steady at level two in our National Fuel Security Plan that has been agreed to by the National Cabinet. Australia's fuel supply outlook remains secure in the near term. However, we're working hard to prepare for contingencies in the event of supply disruptions in fuel and in fertiliser. I do want to acknowledge the good work of the states and territories in the whole nation working together, but importantly as well, Australians who are doing their bit to – as the advertising campaign says, that every little bit helps and people are changing their behaviour on a voluntary basis, which is one of the reasons why we've seen the supply of petrol, in particular, go up to 46 days from where it was at, which is higher than it was on February 28 when this conflict began.
The longer though that the war goes on, the more significant the implications for Australia will be, just like it's having an impact right around the world. My Government will continue to work around the clock to shield Australians from the worst of the impacts. And in doing that, we're working with states and territories, but we're also, of course, working with the private sector, including the purchase or the underwriting of cargoes through Export Finance Australia, of which we've now had six cargoes of diesel that have had just a little bit over 300 million litres of diesel on their way to Australia as a result of the work that we've done there. And we'll continue to do what we can to see if there are further cargoes that are available for purchase in the spot market.
One of the discussions that occurred as well was the diversification of where our fuel's coming from. For example, the United States that traditionally has not been a big supplier, has supplied about 18 per cent at the moment. Argentina, that was very small indeed, is now into double figures. And we've also been able to secure supply from Algeria. We'll continue to work to diversify where we can get fuel from. And the key here is achieving supply. That is our top priority. The reality remains, of course, that the Strait is still closed and has been closed now for two months. We're in deeply tumultuous and turbulent global times, and people are aware of that and can see that that is the case. We are doing what we can to alleviate this issue, whether it be getting additional supply or the decision that we made to cut the fuel excise that is saving people 32 cents in every litre that they purchase.
We agreed that we'll meet again in a couple of weeks time. We want to make sure that we continue to be on the same page, that we work together and that information is provided to states and territories. And I want to thank the premiers and chief ministers for getting together today in the national interest. I'll go to Minister Bowen, then we're happy to take questions. Thanks
**CHRIS BOWEN, MINISTER FOR CLIMATE CHANGE & ENERGY:** Very much, Prime Minister. As Prime Minister said, a strong and constructive meeting of the National Cabinet today, where I was able to update on the supply situation, as I do each weekend, directly to the Australian people. And as the PM said, in fact, we now have 46 days worth of petrol in our stocks, which is 10 days more than when the bombing of Iran commenced, shows that while we are facing international headwinds and risks and uncertainties into the medium term, nevertheless, nothing is being left on the field when it comes to ensuring that Australia is very well placed, including the EFA purchases the Prime Minister and I announced yesterday, building on the purchases the Prime Minister announced the week before and further work underway to ensure that we are as well placed as we can be. And that is a good thing, because it means that those Australians who are looking at the forward supply and making decisions can know that as well as these things can be forecast, Australia is well placed.
Also, just on a separate matter, can I just welcome the figures today released by the Australian Energy Market Operator on the renewable energy pipeline. We're building a new energy system in Australia, which introduces more of the cheapest form of energy, reduces our emissions, but also harnesses those wonderful Australian resources of the wind and the sun to ensure our energy system is as sovereign as it possibly can be. The fact that we now have 67.3 gigawatts of new renewable energy investment in our pipeline, which compares to the 73 gigawatts that exists. That's the scale of the pipeline that is being built across the country, with more early stage proposals in the AEMO pipeline and more gigawatts having hit the grid, actually being connected in the last quarter. All those indicators are up and that's a good thing, particularly in relation to batteries.
Australia is really leading the world in battery deployment at the moment. Batteries are being deployed at a rapid rate around the world, but 10 per cent of all the batteries that were installed in terms of capacity around the world in March were in Australia. We're not 10 per cent of the world's economy. We're not 10 per cent of the world's population, but we are 10 per cent of the new battery capacity that's being installed. Particularly these AEMO figures are focused on grid scale batteries, obviously, but also cheaper home batteries are being introduced under our policy, where so many Australians are reducing their bills each day. We're now at 348,833, cheaper home batteries that have been installed since the 1st of July last year. That shows that Australians, with some support from their government, are getting on with the job of building an energy system which is in their interests and in the interests of Australia more broadly.
**JOURNALIST:** Are you in discussions with fuel companies about potential taxpayer support to extend the diesel capacity of existing refineries, or to even build a new one?
**PRIME MINISTER:** No. What we are doing is continuing to concentrate on supply. We're looking, of course, across the board. Anything that we can do, any constructive proposals, we're open for dialogue, but what we are concentrating on at the moment isn't something that is time lengthy for obvious reasons. What we are doing is concentrating on supply. It is a pity that under the former Government, four out of the six refineries closed in Australia. It's also unfortunate that they chose to have their reserves in Texas. We reversed that and we had at the beginning of this global crisis, we had the strongest reserves we've had in 15 years.
**JOURNALIST:** Firstly, just on fuel, you mentioned we're steady at stage two. How likely is it that we will get to stage three? Are we close to that or where are we on that?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Sure. It's certainly not imminent. What we are doing is making sure that we continue though to be straightforward with people, which is we are in uncertain times. Some of this is obviously dependent upon how long the war goes for. We're also being upfront to say that if the conflict ends tomorrow and the Strait of Hormuz opens tomorrow, then there is a time lag before the economic consequences of what has happened over the last two months flow through the system. It takes time to clear the Strait, to make it safe. It will take time for the ships that have been stuck in the Gulf to reach their destination, to unload, and then to travel back to receive more supply. So, there'll be a long economic tail here, but what we are doing is making sure as well that people are updated on a regular basis, that's how you build confidence. And it has been a good thing that the spike in demand that we saw at the beginning of this conflict from Easter on has been diminished substantially. So, the sort of hoarding that I'm sure that your network like others showed, utes and vans turning up at petrol stations and being filled up with jerrycans, that not only is not a sensible thing to do and the right thing to do, it's also potentially a dangerous thing to do, to have a garage full of petrol rather than of toilet paper, are very different products.
**JOURNALIST:** James Valentine has passed away, a much loved ABC presenter. Did you want to reflect on him, but also mention the Order of Australia that he was awarded last week?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, James Valentine was a much-loved Australian, a musician who then went into broadcasting and was a warm, friendly and comforting voice. He is someone who was engaging to talk with and who Australians listened to and trusted, and he had a long and distinguished career. And I think right across the media world today will be mourning James Valentine, as will people who are his family, his friends, and particularly the family at the ABC. And James Valentine was someone who was always very good to talk with. He listened, he put forward his views, he was entertaining and he was uplifting as well, which is why his recent health issues that he's gone through are so devastating for all those who knew him and loved him. He quite rightly received an Order of Australia award. He was someone who was most deserving of it. And today I just express my sympathy to his family and his many, many friends and those who never met him but felt like they knew him because of the way that he engaged through the radio.
**JOURNALIST:** You talked about how state and federal governments are developing contingencies in place in case supplies for fuel run out. What do these contingencies look like and can you flesh out some of the specific triggers for them?
**PRIME MINISTER:** The trigger is very clear, which is supply. Now, at this stage, what we have is normal supply. The number of ships that we would have expected to be coming to Australia are coming at this point in time. So, what we are attempting to do is to deliver as much supply as possible. We're out there in the marketplace using EFA, using companies that have come forward, such as BHP. I thank them for their use of their expertise and their connections in the global marketplace as well. They're one of the world's greatest users of diesel, so they were in a particularly strong position to be able to provide assistance. The fertiliser that is on its way from Indonesia as well, is a great example. But what we'll continue to do, through the Supply Task Force that consists of Anthea Harris at the Commonwealth level, but a state representative in each state and territory as well, they're meeting twice a week. They're constantly engaged in assessing what the needs are. The Minister gives updates every Saturday, but as well, there's more regular updates than that. We were up yesterday, we're up today. This week it will be Sunday because of Anzac Day, which is a day where, quite rightly, we have one issue, which is to give thanks to those men and women who serve in our Defence Forces and to pay tribute to those currently serving, to our veterans, and also to remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our defence and our freedom. 
**JOURNALIST:** In terms of states who refuse to sign up to the NDIS reforms, like Queensland, holding out on Thriving Kids, would you be prepared to make the extra hospital funding agreed to in January contingent on them agreeing on the NDIS?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Oh look, I'll engage constructively and I'm sure that states and territories will as well.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, the Premier of NSW warning states won't be able to provide equivalent care. What additional support – 
**PRIME MINISTER:** Sorry, what? The context?
**JOURNALIST:** Sorry, the NSW Premier is warning that states are not going to be able to provide equivalent care, in light of the NDIS reforms. What additional support will be given to states? And of the 160,000 people who will be kicked off the scheme in a decade, can you ensure that before they are kicked off, there will be equivalent state support?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, of course, support will be given. What we are doing here, to be clear, is returning the NDIS to what its original purpose was. And a system that is unsustainable will lead to a breakdown in confidence in the system by the Australian public. What I want – and I'm proud, as the leader of the Labor Party, that this is a great Labor reform that was put in place. That was put in place for people with permanent and serious disability to provide support for them so they can fully participate in society. It has helped and will continue to help so many Australians who are in need of that care. States and territories signed up to the Thriving Kids program as well, because we want to make sure that every young person can fulfil their potential. But the NDIS was never intended to have classrooms where four in every ten children were on the NDIS. And the original purpose is what we are aimed at. We think that is very important and we'll work constructively with states and territories, importantly as well with providers and with the community itself to make sure that we deliver appropriate care. And I'm confident that that is what we will do.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, Mark Butler says people won't be moved off the NDIS until the Government is confident public support systems are in place. Can you guarantee the 2028 reassessment deadline is enough?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Yes, we can. We think we've got it right. This is well thought through. Mark Butler put forward very clearly a position that built on the work that previously was done by Bill Shorten. We know that when we came to office, the growth in the NDIS, annual, was 22 per cent growth. Now, what we are putting forward here, will continue to see the scheme grow into the future. But left unchecked, the NDIS would cost more than Medicare and the PBS combined. So, a system that is unsustainable doesn't work. We want to make sure that it can work into the future.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, while the Coalition says it is open to supporting your NDIS changes, the Greens said you should instead tax gas companies to make it more sustainable. What's your opinion on that proposal and were you hoping for more support from the Greens to make the program successful?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, the Greens can make their own decisions, but this is about providing support for people with disabilities, so they get the care that they need. That's what it's about and it's an extraordinary thing to do. I haven't seen those comments to somehow link that to gas or anything else. This is about people with disabilities getting the care that they need. So, the four pillars of the plan, fighting fraud and stopping rorts. I would have thought pretty sensible. Slowing rapid cost increases. Quite clearly, 22 per cent increases was not sustainable. Clearer eligibility requirements. Clearly there's been a problem in the system, including with the way that some providers have been able to go in the system and making sure, importantly, the fourth element linked to that, which is delivering quality services and support to participants. Mark Butler, I was able to watch his speech at the Press Club yesterday. I think he put forward a very powerful case, including speaking about people with disabilities who were in a position where the providers, untrained, not regulated properly, were spending time looking at their phones whilst the people who they should have been caring for weren't getting the support that they need. I understand how important it is. I'm the son of what was then called an invalid pensioner, a single mum. I understand what it's like for people to have disabilities and I will always do and fight for them to get the care that they need. But quite clearly, if that is going to occur, then the system needs to work for them. Thanks very much.
