The Cook Government has sold an additional 33 residential lots in Madigan Estate in Karratha to Perdaman to accommodate its permanent workforce and support the growth of the $6.5 billion Karratha Urea Project. 
  * Cook Government releases additional 33 residential lots to boost key worker housing in Karratha 
  * Part of efforts to ensure every Western Australian has a home
  * Land sale to Perdaman supports housing needs for $6.5 billion Karratha Urea Project workforce 


The Cook Government has sold an additional 33 residential lots in Madigan Estate in Karratha to Perdaman to accommodate its permanent workforce and support the growth of the $6.5 billion Karratha Urea Project. 
The land sale will directly support local employment, stimulate the regional economy, and increase the number of permanent residents, thus reducing reliance on fly-in-fly-out workers. 
Last year, Perdaman purchased 85 lots from DevelopmentWA and an additional 15 lots from the Murujuga Aboriginal Corporation. 
Perdaman's construction program is progressing well, with 31 homes already delivered and a further 30 houses now under construction.
All 133 houses will be delivered by local building contractors and are scheduled for completion within five years. 
The land release is part of the government's efforts to ensure every Western Australian has a secure home. 
To ensure these homes benefit the local workforce, they are reserved for project employees and cannot be leased on the private market or used for fly-in-fly-out accommodation. 
Planning by DevelopmentWA is also underway for Stage 3 of Madigan Estate, which will deliver approximately 250 additional lots, as well as land for a childcare centre and a new primary school.
**Comments attributed to Premier Roger Cook:**
"My government is prioritising a home for every Western Australian.
"That way, we can continue to attract the major projects we need to keep our State the strongest in the nation.
"By selling these lots in Karratha, my government has ensured there will be more homes available for Western Australians working in the Pilbara, taking pressure off the housing market and supporting development of Perdaman's job-creating urea project."
**Comments attributed to Housing and Works Minister John Carey:**
"The sale of additional lots to Perdaman demonstrates our government's focus on boosting housing supply in regional WA.
"It is highly encouraging to see Perdaman forging ahead with their housing construction program, and we will continue to work closely with them to ensure the timely delivery of these homes."
**Comments attributed to Pilbara Minister Amber-Jade Sanderson:**
"Our government is ensuring the Pilbara continues to power our nation-leading economy, which is why we want it to be a vibrant region for people to live, work and raise a family.
"By supporting housing for workers in Karratha, we're ensuring the Pilbara can continue to play a leading role in diversifying Western Australia's economy."
**Comments attributed to Perdaman Founding Chair and Managing Director Vikas Rambal:**
"This latest land release has increased Perdaman's capacity to deliver even more housing in Karratha.
"We will now proudly build 133 new homes for our workforce, helping to minimise pressure on the community. 
"This is a long-term investment in the Pilbara - local housing, local jobs, and lasting community benefit. By delivering workforce homes through local builders and continuing respectful partnerships with Traditional Custodians and key stakeholders, Perdaman is supporting a more sustainable, community-based workforce.
"Our legacy in Karratha must be measured by the strength of the community we help build."
**Comments attributed to Pilbara MLA Kevin Michel:**
"I'm focused on making sure people in Karratha have access to secure, affordable housing.  
"This land release will help expand accommodation for essential workers and support Karratha's ongoing development, ultimately creating more opportunities for people who live and work here."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
5 March 2026 
Ministers
Premier; Minister for State Development; Trade and Investment; Economic Diversification 
Minister for Planning and Lands; Housing and Works; Health Infrastructure 
Minister for Energy and Decarbonisation; Manufacturing; Skills and TAFE; Pilbara 
[See all media statements from this Government](
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](
