Western Australia's domestic economy grew by 3.3 per cent in 2025, continuing to outpace national growth, according to Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) national accounts data released today. 
  * Western Australia's domestic economy grew by 3.3 per cent in 2025, continuing to outpace national economic growth of 2.5 per cent 
  * WA recorded the strongest economic growth in the nation over the past five years at 27.2 per cent
  * Private sector accounted for majority of domestic economic growth at 86 per cent, the highest of all states and territories
  * Household consumption and business investment also grew at the fastest rate in the nation
  * Dwelling investment grew by 8 per cent, underpinned by growth in new housing supply supported by $6.3 billion Cook Government investment 
  * Cook Government committed to diversifying the WA economy, so it remains the strongest in the nation


Western Australia's domestic economy grew by 3.3 per cent in 2025, continuing to outpace national growth, according to Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) national accounts data released today. 
The State's domestic economy grew by 27.2 per cent over the last five years, the strongest of all states and territories, and well above the national rate of 20.9 per cent. 
WA remains one of the best places in the world to do business and secure a quality job, with the State's private sector driving 86 per cent of the State's domestic economic growth in 2025, the highest of all jurisdictions. 
This trend is also reflected in the labour market, with WA's employment growth being driven by the private sector.
Household consumption grew by 3 per cent, again the strongest in the nation, and continued to outpace national growth of 2.1 per cent. 
Business investment lifted to 5.7 per cent in 2025, reaching more than $63 billion, the strongest growth of all jurisdictions, and more than three times national growth at 1.8 per cent.
Dwelling investment also grew to 8 per cent in 2025, underpinned by strong growth in new housing supply and the Cook Government's investment in a range of measures to ensure every Western Australian has a home.
Dwelling investment reached its highest level since 2018, driven by a growth in new homes. 
New home approvals have also increased by 13.2 per cent over the year to January 2026 to more than 24,500 homes, with a 40 per cent growth in multi-residential homes, according to the latest ABS data.
The strong results demonstrate the Cook Government's record $6.3 billion investment in initiatives to boost housing supply are continuing to deliver results.
Government investment declined by 6.8 per cent in 2025, with the completion of a range of transformational infrastructure projects including key METRONET projects, while government consumption slowed to 4.1 per cent growth.
**Comments attributed to Treasurer Rita Saffioti:**
"Western Australia's economic growth continues to outpace the nation, showing our plan to keep the State's finances and economy strong is working.
"WA's economic growth continues to be dominated by the private sector which is helping to deliver strong jobs growth and ensure our economy remains nation-leading. 
"Housing investment has reached the highest levels since 2018 and housing approvals are up 13.2 per cent over the year to January 2026, bolstered by our government's record investment in initiatives to drive housing supply.
"Our government is continuing to invest in the infrastructure, industries, and services Western Australia needs for the future while ensuring our economy continues to power the nation."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
4 March 2026 
Ministers
Deputy Premier; Treasurer; Minister for Transport; Sport and Recreation 
[See all media statements from this Government](
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](
