**As the Project Officer, Sustainable Landscapes, you will:**
  * Lead the delivery of sustainable land management projects that support the Alinytjara Wilurara Landscape Board objectives and the Regional Landscape Plan, with a focus on sustainable agriculture and climate change adaptation.
  * Manage projects to meet contracted funding outputs and outcomes, ensuring effective planning, delivery, and reporting that contribute to long-term environmental outcomes across the region.
  * Foster strong, collaborative partnerships with regional partners to ensure projects are culturally appropriate and delivered through a cooperative, place-based approach.


**About you:**
  * You have expertise in sustainable land management or climate adaptation, with a strong track record in delivering high-quality, evidence-based projects.
  * You're confident in project delivery, from planning and procurement to engaging communities and working in remote or cross-cultural settings.
  * You build strong, respectful partnerships, especially with Aboriginal communities, and support others through mentoring and collaboration.


**Key results/outcomes to be achieved include:**
  * Sustainable land management projects are effectively developed and delivered on time, on budget and to a high quality.
  * Project subject matter research (eg sustainable agriculture/land management, carbon farming, climate change)is undertaken to maintain current knowledge and to inform project activities and decision making.
  * Procurement, engagement, and contract management of services is undertaken to ensure projects are delivered.
  * Community engagement and communication strategies for identified project plan outcomes are developed and implemented.
  * On-ground land managers, including Aboriginal Corporation staff and Aboriginal Rangers, are supported,mentored and developed to deliver project activities.
  * Effective behaviour change tactics are delivered to build broad community understanding of the importance of sustainable landscape management for environmental and agricultural outcomes in the AW Region
  * Effective working relationships are developed and maintained with a range of internal and external stakeholders, including the Australian Government funding partners.
  * Sustainable land management expertise and advice is provided to the Board and stakeholders to support the delivery of project outcomes, program planning cycles, and management decision making.
  * Achievement of team and Board staff are supported to contribute to and facilitate planning at the community,strategic, and major project levels, ensuring alignment with Board priorities and regional needs.


**What we offer:**
  * **Flexible Work:** Enjoy diverse and rewarding work with flexible arrangements, including work from home options and field work.
  * **Supportive Culture:** Thrive in a nurturing environment with plenty of learning and development opportunities.
  * **Salary Benefits** : Benefit from attractive SA Government salary sacrifice options


**Special Conditions**
  * Engagement will be subject to a satisfactory Criminal History Check. 
  * Some out of hours work may be required.
  * Some intra and interstate travel requiring overnight absences may be required.


For all special conditions, please refer to the Role Description
_All Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander descent are encouraged to apply._
**Contract**  
One full-time (37.5hrs/per week) position  
12 month term position available immediately  
Located in Adelaide or Ceduna, South Australia 
**Remuneration**  
$89,007 - $98,991 per annum (ASO5)
**Enquiries**  
Mr Damon Ezis  
Manager, Strategy and Sustainable Landscapes  
Phone:   
E-mail: 
**Application Instructions**  
All applications must be submitted online through the IWorkforSA website and should include:
  * CV (including three referees) and a cover letter addressing the criteria outlined in the Application Guidelines document.
  * Pre-employment Declaration
  * Current National Police Certificate (essential)


**Applications close:** 17/05/2026 11:30 PM
