**CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER**  
**  
The Organisation**  
  
Community Options Australia began in 1996 as a not-for-profit organisation with a clear mission: to provide innovative packaged care solutions that connected people with the support they needed. Our history of listening, guiding and supporting people has laid the foundation for our continued leadership in aged care assessments, including the new Single Assessment System, helping Australians feel understood, supported, and confident as they navigate their care journey.  
  
**The Opportunity and Candidate Profile**  
  
This is a role for a CEO who is energised by building, strengthening and shaping organisations for long term impact. Working closely with a highly engaged Board, the incoming CEO will have the mandate and support to consolidate reform, expand the organisation’s impact and position Community Options Australia for the decade ahead.  
You will bring:  

  1. Demonstrated ability to provide leadership and direction as a CEO within a complex and changing environment ideally from the aged care, health, disability, employment or community services sector.
  2. Proven ability to build organisational culture and nurture high performing teams.
  3. Highly developed business development, entrepreneurial, financial and risk management skills with the ability to innovate and manage opportunities and risks to grow business, build the brand and safeguard the reputation.
  4. Demonstrated understanding of government funding at Commonwealth and State levels and a working knowledge of major legislative and regulatory requirements and compliance for a not-for-profit company.
  5. A Current Police Check and Working with Children Check or willingness to apply.

  
**How to Apply**  
  
To request a comprehensive Candidate Briefing Document or to arrange a confidential conversation please email Mohanna Watson at Beaumont People   
  
To apply, upload your cover letter and resume via the link.  
  
At Beaumont People, we believe a diverse workplace is a happy workplace. We welcome applications from people of all backgrounds, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, people from CALD backgrounds, and people with disability or barriers to employment.
