**The Clean Energy Regulator**
We are an economic regulator accelerating carbon abatement for Australia. We do this by administering Australian Government schemes to measure, manage, reduce and offset carbon emissions in Australia.
Our role is determined by climate change law. We administer 
Find out more about the Clean Energy Regulator and what we have to offer, please visit our 
**Work with us**
Working with us isn’t just a job, it's a chance to have a rewarding career. We're looking for people with diverse skills, expertise and experience to work with us to reduce carbon emissions and increase the use of clean energy in Australia.
**About the Branch**
The Compliance Branch provides specialist services to support efficient and effective compliance actions across all CER schemes. These services can include actions and activities that will help the CER to better understand who the participants are and to explain their behaviours so that we can provide targeted and timely guidance and outreach activities to enable them to meet their obligations. The branch also helps to detect non-compliance and to facilitate and enforce compliance within each scheme.
**About the Roles**
The agency is undergoing a period of significant change and growth, with new responsibilities and expanded scope of schemes, such as the Cheaper Home Batteries initiative. As a result, there are current and expected vacancies across all four sections in the branch.
We are seeking professionals who thrive in collaborative environments, contribute positively to team culture and are eager to grow and share knowledge. If you’re someone who values integrity, teamwork and making a meaningful impact, we’d love to hear from you!
When applying you will be asked to specify which role/s you wish to be considered for. We are recruiting the following:
  * APS Level 5 Investigators and APS Level 6 Senior Investigators
  * APS Level 5 Compliance Officers and APS Level 6 Senior Compliance Officers
  * APS Level 5 Intelligence Officers and APS Level 6 Senior Intelligence Officers
  * APS Level 5 Regulatory Officers and APS Level 6 Senior Regulatory Officers


For further details about these positions, please visit the Clean Energy Regulator’s Careers page and review the candidate information pack.
**How to Apply**
To learn more about these roles, please click on 'Apply' to view the 
**Other Benefits**
  * Great work-life balance.
  * Competitive salary packaging and leave options, including purchase leave.
  * Diverse, supportive, inclusive and agile work environment, with staff at all levels being part of conversations with the senior executive and being offered the opportunity to experience different types of work.
  * A wide range of learning and development opportunities.


**Applications close 11.30pm (AEDT) on Wednesday, 8 April 2026.**
#### Clean Energy Regulator
2.2·[5 reviews](https://www.seek.com.au/companies/clean-energy-regulator-897755/reviews?jobId=90856894)
