**Our Transition**
The Metropolitan Cemeteries Board (MCB) is evolving. As the custodians of Perth’s cemeteries, entrusted with honouring and commemorating the lives of Western Australians now and into the future we adapt our ways of working to meet the needs of our diverse and changing communities.
To support this evolution, the recently reclassified Senior Executive Service (SES) Chief Operating Officer (COO) position will play a pivotal part in strengthening our executive leadership and guiding our transition from a predominantly operational and transactional organisation to one that is strategic and future‑focused.
**The Opportunity**
Reporting directly to the CEO, the COO will lead operational, planning and customer‑focused service delivery. This will be achieved with a focus on safety, environmental compliance, plant performance, customer service and cost management. Additionally, the role will plan for and optimise our assets, both now and in the future. It also scans our industry to ensure our range of products and services meet the needs of our customers. Changes to our products is a key responsibility, ensuring our operations and infrastructure support new and emerging products and services, reflecting changes to the way we celebrate and commemorate life.
This is a rare leadership role where innovation, integrity and continuous improvement truly matter.   
  
If you are passionate about strengthening community services, driving operational performance and shaping future‑focused approaches to how we honour and commemorate life, this is your opportunity to make a meaningful difference.
Key responsibilities include (but are not limited to):
  * Lead the Operations Division to deliver best‑practice technical, landscaping and funeral services, with a focus on safety, environmental compliance, plant performance, customer service and cost management.
  * Oversee approx. 140 FTE across seven sites, and four divisions (Planning, Design and Projects, Operations, Business Development and Customer Service).
  * Manage the Cemetery Renewal Plan, including budget projections and management, and implement innovative strategies for the redevelopment and re-use of cemeteries.
  * Identify, analyse and report on risk mitigation initiatives, issues and developments that impact the business.
  * Establish and maintain relationships with a range of stakeholders, such as State and Local Government, Cemeteries and Crematoria Association of WA, consultants, other agencies and private sector.


**About Us**
At the MCB, you’ll be part of something bigger than a workplace! Preserving cultural heritage, fostering community connections, and delivering vital public services. We offer a collaborative and inclusive environment where you are recognised, your ideas are valued, and your impact is felt every day. **Join us and help shape a legacy that matters.** As a self-funded statutory authority, the MCB operates seven cemeteries and memorial parks across Greater Perth.
**Our Aspiration** ; To be a sanctuary for our community, preserving history and culture and providing places for remembrance and connection.
**About You**
To be successful in this role, you will have as a minimum;
  * Significant experience leading and managing large, complex service delivery programs.
  * Substantial experience managing a geographically dispersed customer service team.
  * Experience managing human, physical and financial resources.
  * Highly developed conceptual and analytical skills, with a proven ability to generate innovative solutions to complex problems.
  * An understanding of key issues and trends affecting the cemetery and crematoria industries.


**Further Job-Related Information**
Please note that the MCB is currently consulting with its employees on structural changes required to support the introduction of the reclassified COO position.   
  
For further information, please refer to the attached Job Description Form (JDF) and/or contact Kathlene Oliver, Chief Executive Officer, on **There is currently one [1] fixed term SES position available for immediate filling.**
**How to Apply**
Select the ‘Apply for Job’ button and provide the following documents;
  * A current CV of your work history/experience and achievements relevant to this position.
  * A cover letter of no more than two [2]-pages addressing the Work-Related Requirements specified in the attached JDF.
  * Applicants who are shortlisted will be assessed on all work-related requirements during the selection process.
  * Please ensure you have plenty of time to submit your application to allow for unanticipated problems. Late applications will not be accepted.


Applicants found suitable through this process may be considered for future contract or permanent roles, either in this position or similar ones.
**Closing Date: Monday, 16 March 2026 @ 4.00pm**
For technical difficulties while applying online, general recruitment enquiries, or to request documents in an alternative format, please contact Human Resources on 
If you have any access needs and may require adjustments to allow you to fully participate in the application and interview process, or alternative methods of communication, please contact Human Resources on 
**Equity and Diversity**
The MCB embraces diversity and believes that the best services come from a workplace where diversity in thought is welcomed and encouraged every day. We are committed to creating an equitable and diverse workforce, where we encourage applications from people with disability, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, people from culturally diverse backgrounds, women, youth and people from sexual or gender diverse orientations.
#### Metropolitan Cemeteries Board WA
