## 🌿 Environmental Consultant
**Your Next Chapter Starts Here**
At Eco Logical Australia (ELA), A Tetra Tech Company, we’re more than just an environmental consultancy. We’re a multi-disciplinary community of over 200 approachable experts who lead with science to inform critical environmental decisions and deliver positive solutions.
Our "**Find Your People** " philosophy means you’ll be surrounded by smart, grounded, and genuinely supportive teammates who love what they do. Our clients trust and rely on us for solutions; together, we work on some of the most complex and meaningful biodiversity projects in NSW and beyond.
ELA operates autonomously within the Tetra Tech group, a leading provider of consulting services worldwide with a network of 49 specialist companies. This unique blend of local expertise and international strength gives our clients the agility of a mid-sized consultancy, backed by the security, resources and opportunities of a global organisation.
We’re deeply committed to creating a welcoming, inclusive and supportive workplace where everyone feels they belong and their contributions are genuinely valued. **This commitment is grounded in our core values: Listen First, Share Your Genius, Be Courageous, and Feed the Culture.**
Our recruitment practices uphold equal opportunity and accessibility, and our culture actively supports professional growth, wellbeing, and career development in a safe and respectful environment. We offer full-time, part-time and flexible work arrangements—so our people can live their best lives while doing their best work.
Our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) is progressing, and we’re proud to partner with CareerTrackers to provide meaningful internship opportunities for First Nations university students.
**That’s what makes us more than just an environmental consultancy.**
## What You'll Be Doing
Established in 2010, ELA’s Mudgee office has built a strong reputation for quality work and delivery, with an established client base and range of long-term and new and prospective projects. Our Mudgee office supports a team of approachable, friendly professionals who support each other to do meaningful work across sectors including mining, renewables, infrastructure and conservation.
As an Environmental Consultant, you’ll collaborate with industry-leading consultants on projects that make a real difference. From environmental impact assessment to stakeholder engagement and strategic planning, you’ll be part of something purposeful—while building your expertise and project management skills across diverse, exciting projects.
## What You’ll Bring
We’re looking for someone with:
  * A degree in Environmental Planning, Environmental Management or a related discipline
  * 2+ years of relevant experience in environmental consulting, environmental officer or related fields
  * A solid understanding (or strong awareness) of NSW and Commonwealth environmental legislation—especially the _Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979_
  * Excellent verbal and written communication skills and sharp attention to detail
  * A self-starter mindset with strong time management and teamwork capabilities
  * Proficiency in MS Office
  * Experience in GIS is desirable, although not essential
  * A genuine enthusiasm for environmental work and a collaborative approach
  * A current driver’s licence.


## About the location
The town of Mudgee, in Central West NSW, is a hive of cultural activity located only 270 km from Sydney. With beautiful heritage streetscapes surrounded by amazing national parks, Mudgee offers an exceptional lifestyle choice for those looking to escape the rat race.
From museums and galleries to internationally renowned wineries and restaurants; from festivals to national sporting competition games, Mudgee is a welcoming country town with all the perks of a big city.
Our office is in a heritage listed building on the main street of Mudgee; your office views include heritage buildings, spring blossoms and autumn leaves (with great coffee options).
## Why You’ll Love Working with Us
You’ll love working with us because we will value your expertise, encourage your curiosity and your contributions will have a real-world impact. You'll be part of a team that genuinely enjoys what they do and supports each other to succeed. We offer,
💸 A competitive salary subject to annual review
🌱 Workplace flexibility and Health & Wellbeing programs.
🎂 Paid birthday leave.
📚 Study assistance scheme and learning opportunities with industry experts.
🧑‍🔬 Collaboration on national projects, building your expertise within a supportive community of practice.
🧭 Professional development opportunities.
👶 Genderless 12-week paid parental leave.
💲 Salary sacrifice into superannuation and the ability to purchase 4 weeks of additional annual leave.
💹 Opportunity to participate in Tetra Tech employee stock purchase program, and purchase at a discounted rate (NASDAQ TTEK).
Most of all, we offer purpose-driven work, incredible colleagues, and the opportunity to grow a career where you don’t have to choose between quality of work and quality of life.
## Next Steps
If you're an Australian citizen, resident, or hold permanent working rights—and you're looking to join a supportive, values-driven organisation that prioritises workplace culture and offers genuine opportunities for growth and development—we’d love to hear from you!
## Apply now
To apply, please forward your application (including a cover letter addressing the above criteria) to our People and Culture team, via email 
For further information about the position, please contact Kalya Abbey, Operations Manager, via 
**Applications close: Tuesday, 7 April 2026**
**_Come and see if our people are your people_**
