**As you write your next chapter what shape will it take?  
** At EY, we offer more than just an internship. We offer you the chance to build a truly exceptional career. We’ll empower you with the latest technology, surround you with high-performing teams, and provide the global scale and diverse and inclusive culture you need to discover your full potential. 
Through our coaching and training programs, you’ll develop the skills you need to stay relevant today and in the future, all while building a network of colleagues, mentors, and leaders who will be on the journey with you at EY and beyond. Those who stand out may be offered a permanent graduate role after graduation. 
To learn more about our business and life at EY, visit 
**Climate Change and Sustainability Services at EY  
** The Climate Change and Sustainability Services team is the largest sustainability consulting team in Oceania. Our multidisciplinary teams help companies understand the risks and opportunities arising from climate change and sustainability issues, advising a large proportion of the ASX 200 to help them drive performance beyond their bottom line. The team also supports EY clients in defining and delivering their community investment programs and help protect the health and wellbeing of their employees.  
  
Our team works across the full spectrum of sustainability, health and safety and climate change issues, including environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) strategy, outcomes measurement, health and safety, environmental management, climate risk and decarbonisation, human rights and modern slavery through advisory and assurance engagements.  
  
As part of the team, you’ll support our clients in defining, executing and measuring performance against their ESG strategies. Our work is central to supporting our communities and clients create a healthier, safer and more sustainable future.
**What we can offer you**
  * Accelerate your technical capabilities and transformative leadership skills with future-focused courses and development programs.
  * Discover the various ways our benefits can cater to your needs, across wellness, financial wellbeing and leave: 
  * Develop your own personal purpose and help us create a positive ripple effect on our teams, our business, clients and society: 


**Eligibility  
** This role requires you to: 
  * Be currently in the penultimate year of your degree (graduating in 2027). 
  * Hold Australian or New Zealand citizenship, or be an Australian permanent resident. 


**Application Journey  
** To learn more about each step of our application process, please visit: 
Please keep in mind that our student program recruitment is thorough, and it may take up to six weeks to receive an update on your application.   
  
We encourage you to apply early, as we review applications on a rolling basis and positions may close once filled. Remember to submit only one application. 
**Apply now - We’re all in to shape your future with confidence.  
  
****Acknowledgement of Country**   
EY acknowledges the Traditional Owners and Custodians of the lands on which EY offices are located around Australia. We pay our respects to their cultures, and to their Elders — past, present, and emerging. Find out more about our vision for reconciliation at 
DE&I are core to who we are, how we work and how we live our values. We hold a collective commitment to continue to drive an environment where all differences are valued, practices are equitable, and everyone experiences a sense of belonging — where people are inspired to team and lead inclusively in their interactions every day. We encourage applications from people of all ages, nationalities, abilities, cultures, sexual orientations, and gender identities and are committed to providing an equitable and barrier free recruitment experience for all. Learn more: 
We encourage you to share any support and adjustments you need to be your best and participate equitably in our recruitment process. We understand sharing your needs with us can be daunting, so if you have questions before or during your application, we welcome you to get in touch at 
_Our preferred applicant will be required to undertake employment screening by EY or our external third-party provider._
**EY** | Building a better working world   
© 2026 Ernst & Young Australia. All Rights Reserved. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.
#### SEEK Grad
