The Department of Mines, Petroleum and Exploration (DMPE) is more than just an employer. We aim to provide our employees the opportunity to:
  * **Contribute** - give back to your community, share your knowledge and improve safety.
  * **Develop** - grow your skills, develop a career path, and expand your horizons.
  * **Thrive** - find balance between work and home life, make a change and enjoy a better future.


As a member of DMPE, you will help support the development of Western Australia’s resources sector, which oversees resource development and improved environmental outcomes for mining, petroleum and exploration for the benefit of WA and future generations. We value diversity and appreciate every individual’s perspective, bringing together a diverse and inclusive workforce to drive innovation and success.
**The Role**
  * Undertake assessments of complex mining/petroleum proposals
  * Provide high level specialist/technical advice
  * Prepare reports, documents and correspondence related to complex environmental assessments
  * Carry out the duties of an Inspector and undertake inspections/compliance assessments Undertake and/or manage incident and compliance investigations.
  * Mentor and coach less experienced staff members as required.
  * Prepare technical advice and assist in drafting guidance material for industry and other stakeholders.


**Qualifications & Licenses**
  * A Bachelor of Environmental Science, Natural Resource Management Degree or an approved equivalent scientific degree
  * Current Western Australian C or C-A class drivers’ licence) or equivalent


**Benefits working for DMPE**
  * Flexible working hours (with a standard 37.5 hour week)
  * Flexible working arrangements (from home, the field and office)
  * 20 days of annual leave per year (which can be taken at half pay)
  * 17.5% leave loading paid annually on accrued annual leave
  * 15 days personal leave per year
  * 13 weeks long service leave every seven years (which can be taken at half pay)
  * 18 weeks paid parental leave (after 12 months of service)
  * 3 public holidays in lieu per year
  * 5 days reproductive leave per year
  * 10 days disability leave per year
  * 5 days bereavement leave
  * 5 days cultural leave for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people per year
  * Ability to purchase additional annual leave
  * Opportunities for professional development, acting, shadowing and mentoring
  * Formal training options
  * Stable work, job security, fair remuneration and 12% superannuation contributions


Interested? Click on “Apply” now to learn more about the role and how to apply for the position.
