Story's url: https://www.rdv.vic.gov.au/news/household-name-oiled-up-for-production-boom

14/05/2026   
There’s more success on the way for one of Australia’s iconic brands – Bosisto’s, after the company completed an upgrade to its eucalyptus oil facility in central Victoria.
With support from the Victorian Government, Bosisto’s has installed a new distillery, made sustainability and production improvements and added 7 new staff.
This will see the 174-year-old manufacturer increase its production of eucalyptus oil by 300%, boosting business and providing flow-on benefits to the local supply chain.
It’s another example of how regional Victoria provides the right conditions for businesses to invest and grow.
Over the past 10 years, the regional economy has grown by 26%, with the regional workforce increasing 21%.
Significantly, Bosisto’s expansion has included some major sustainability upgrades. These include a 2,000-panel solar power system, rainwater capture for cooling and steam-distilling, and an organic conversion process that turns unused leaf material into mulch.
The Bosisto’s story began in 1852, when young pharmacist Joseph Bosisto opened a distillery to bottle eucalyptus oil for medicinal purposes. The oil soon became popular with shipments to Europe from the 1880s.
Today, Bosisto’s is a household name, making around 100 products for cleaning, laundry, personal care, essential oils and aromatherapy, and employing more than 100 people.
Victoria’s $37.4 billion manufacturing sector is a driving force of the state’s economy, supporting nearly 260,000 jobs and exporting $29 billion worth of goods.
