<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://energy.ec.europa.eu/news/copenhagen-forum-underlines-importance-energy-infrastructure-2026-05-22_en

Policymakers, industry representatives and stakeholders met in Copenhagen on 21-22 May for the 12th Energy Infrastructure Forum, opened by Commissioner for Energy and Housing Dan Jørgensen and Danish Deputy Permanent Secretary Christian Stenberg. Participants shared a near unanimous message that the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine highlight that energy infrastructure is more important than ever. In the course of 2 days of discussion, successive speakers made it clear that energy networks form the backbone of the EU energy transition and that the challenges ahead are not just about building infrastructure, but also about shaping a resilient and competitive Europe in an increasingly unstable geopolitical landscape.
Participants stressed that Europe’s energy transition is no longer just an environmental necessity, but an economic imperative. The current geopolitical situation has demonstrated the risks of energy dependency, while global competitors are rapidly advancing in clean technology.
One key topic was electricity infrastructure, where the exchanges highlighted the need for advancing in modernisation and expansion, but also in efficient use of existing grids and smarter solutions. Digital solutions and grid-enhancing technologies can help ease congestion and make grid expansion more cost-effective. At the same time, planning must be forward-looking to ensure that networks are ready for future energy demands, supporting Europe’s competitiveness. Financing remains a key challenge, requiring a mix of innovative financial instruments, targeted public support, where necessary, and greater private investment. There was also broad agreement that costs and benefits must be distributed fairly across countries. Additionally, transparency for investment is essential, with tools like the newly launched “Capacitypedia” or [Roadmap towards Public Engagement Plans]( incentivising system operators for early stakeholder involvement in network planning and development.
A further theme was hydrogen infrastructure, where the focus was on moving from policy to practical implementation. Many EU countries are still in the process of applying existing hydrogen legislation and timely transposition remains a priority. Greater transparency and alignment between supply, demand and infrastructure development will help reduce investment risks across the hydrogen value chain. The EU’s [Hydrogen Mechanism]( was identified as a key tool to foster a competitive and transparent hydrogen market by improving coordination between producers, consumers and infrastructure operators. Further discussions will explore ways to reduce risks for hydrogen transmission projects, looking at solutions at the project, national, corridor and EU levels.
The Forum concluded with a strong emphasis on the need for rapid implementation. While many of the necessary solutions are already known, the challenge now is to put them into practice. Success will depend on close collaboration between EU countries, regulatory authorities, system operators, industry, financial institutions and civil society. 
Organised by the European Commission in cooperation with the Danish Ministry of Climate, Energy and Utilities, the Energy Infrastructure
Publication date
22 May 2026 
Author
    [Directorate-General for Energy](
Share this page 
=======
Story's url: https://www.gov.ca.gov/2026/05/29/governor-newsom-proclaims-foster-care-month/

[News](
May 29, 2026
**SACRAMENTO** – Governor Gavin Newsom today issued a proclamation declaring May 2026, as “Foster Care Month.”
The text of the proclamation and a copy can be found below:
**PROCLAMATION**
During Foster Care Month, we reaffirm to the more than 40,000 foster children and youth in California that we stand in unwavering support of them, and we show gratitude to the thousands of foster families across the state who offer stability and care during critical development stages.  
All children deserve a safe, loving, and permanent home. Foster youth face extraordinary challenges: separation from their biological families at a young age, frequent uprooting, and exposure to adverse childhood experiences. As a result, foster youth are more likely to face difficulties in both the short and long term, with lower graduation rates and higher rates of homelessness as adults. Children of color and LGBTQ youth are overrepresented in the system, and often bear the brunt of these difficulties.  
California is committed to doing right by all our young people, and we are working to ensure that the most vulnerable youth have all they need to not just survive but thrive. To keep families together and reduce foster care entries, the state has created programs to support and educate parents and families to keep their children safely and happily with them. With these programs, we have seen a 32 percent decrease of kids in foster care from 5 years ago. However, if children must enter the system, we prioritize home-based family care above group homes, recognizing the importance of a stable and loving support system. Consistency and care are critical to a healthy childhood, and foster families offer kids safe haven.  
Although half of all foster children are reconnected with their families, and about a quarter are adopted, some foster kids ultimately age out of the system. In 2023, California launched two pilot programs that provide guaranteed income to foster youth aging out in order to support basic needs and disrupt the cycle of poverty. The state is also creating pathways to careers through the Master Plan for Career Education and making financial supports more accessible for those attending college. This includes investing in the CalKIDS program to set up child savings accounts of up to $1,500 for every foster child. The Middle Class Scholarship has expanded to cover tuition and fees for University of California (UC) and California State University (CSU) students with experience in foster care. Community colleges, CSUs, and UCs all have established programs to help former foster youth successfully transition to college life and adulthood.  
Every foster child deserves to grow up happy, healthy, and loved. We are indebted to the many foster families across the state who have answered the call, as we also recognize the need for more loving families to open their homes and change kids’ lives for the better. It takes a village to raise a child, and California is proud to play its part in doing so.  
**NOW THEREFORE I, GAVIN NEWSOM** , Governor of the State of California, do hereby proclaim May 2026, as “Foster Care Month.”
**IN WITNESS WHEREOF** I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Great Seal of the State of California to be affixed this 17th day of May 2026.
GAVIN NEWSOM  
Governor of California
**ATTEST:**  
SHIRLEY N. WEBER, Ph.D.  
Secretary of State
[Press releases]( [Proclamations]( [Recent news](
[Facebook]( "Facebook")[X]( "X")[Email]( "Email")[Copy Link]( "Copy Link")
May 29, 2026
News What you need to know: As Mental Health Awareness Month comes to a close, First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom joined community members in Sacramento to highlight California’s efforts to expand access to physical activity and promote the links between movement,...
May 29, 2026
News What you need to know: Following the Governor and Legislature’s extension of California’s Cap-and-Invest Program through 2045 last year, CARB updated the program to follow legislative direction to balance affordability, jobs and near-term economic concerns while...
May 29, 2026
News What you need to know: Today, 39 Company Officers graduated from Ione Training Center, adding to the more than 3,300 that have joined CAL FIRE since 2019. Under Governor Newsom’s leadership California has made historic investments into wildfire preparedness and...
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
