Story's url: https://cinea.ec.europa.eu/news-events/news/life-calls-proposals-2026-eu6015-million-greener-more-competitive-europe-2026-04-22_en

© European Union 
The EU LIFE Programme [2026 Calls for proposals]( have been launched, and once again we want to hear from you! Funding from the LIFE Programme could help bring your ideas for an innovative, autonomous and resilient Europe to life. 
Launching amid a renewed energy crisis and increased global geopolitical instability, the LIFE 2026 Calls for proposals supports EU measures to increase competitiveness, close the innovation gap and decarbonise the economy. In addition, it will help reduce strategic dependencies — especially on fossil fuels — and enhance the overall resilience of energy systems. 
The LIFE 2026 Calls for proposals are the perfect opportunity to turn your ideas into concrete action. Whether it’s restoring nature, enhancing the environment, improving quality of life or ramping up energy efficiency, storage or homegrown renewable energy, your project could qualify for a share of the €601.5 million available for 2026. 
As a result, the LIFE Programme has never been more relevant. LIFE projects are at the heart of the EU’s ambition to restore nature and biodiversity, advance the circular economy and zero pollution, and accelerate green and clean technologies. They also improve resource efficiency, bolster the resilience of energy systems through energy efficiency and homegrown clean energy, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and strengthen supply chains. LIFE projects create tangible, scalable solutions that drive innovation, enhance resilience and create new markets. Why not join them? 
Visit the [LIFE Calls for proposals 2026]( page to find everything you need to apply. And do not forget to register for the upcoming online 
You can also take inspiration from thousands of successful past and present initiatives across Europe listed in the [LIFE project database]( take a look at what [LIFE is up to in your country]( or get expert help from your [LIFE National Contact Point]( (NCP). 
Standard Action Projects (SAPs) 
  * Nature and Biodiversity - €166 million
  * Nature Governance - €7.5 million
  * Circular Economy and Zero Pollution - €79 million
  * Environmental Governance - €6.5 million
  * Climate Change Adaptation - €28 million
  * Climate Change Mitigation - €28 million
  * Climate Governance - €4 million 
Other Projects (OPs) and Clean Energy Transition Coordination and Support Actions (CSAs) 
  * Clean Energy Transition – €85.5 million
  * Specific Operating Grant Agreements (SGA OGs) for NGOs
Projects on Legislative and Policy Priorities (PLPs)
Strategic Nature Projects (SNaPs) and Strategic Integrated Projects (SIPs) 
  * Strategic Nature Projects - €75 million
  * Strategic Integrated Environment Projects - €58 million 
  * Strategic Integrated Climate Projects - €30 million 
Technical assistance 
  * Technical assistance for preparation of SIPs and SNaPs
Innovative and best practice projects which demonstrate genuine potential to move from piloting and testing to practical, cost-effective application at scale. Specifically, projects should seek to: 
  * Protect, conserve and restore Europe’s wildlife, biodiversity and natural spaces.
  * Encourage individuals and businesses to rethink, refuse, reduce, reuse and recycle.
  * Promote a sustainable, prosperous and competitive economy and quality of life.
  * Cut harmful emissions, boost our climate resilience and help us deal with extreme weather.
  * Accelerate Europe’s transition to clean, renewable, self-sufficient energy supplies.
  * Increase energy efficiency, flexibility and overall EU energy system resilience.
  * Accelerate energy investments, and promote citizen engagement and support in the energy transition. 
Any legal entity based in the European Union or in [countries associated with the LIFE Programme]( can apply for a project grant. LIFE project applications can be submitted by a single organisation or by several entities working in collaboration with other partners, but not by individuals; please check carefully the description of the funding topic you wish to apply to. 
The 2026 Calls for project proposals were launched on 21 April; the call for operating grant proposals will follow soon. The deadline for submission for SAPs is 22 September 2026 – deadlines for other projects vary: please check the [Portal]( for details**.**
Join the 
The [LIFE Programme ]( the EU's funding instrument for the environment and climate action. With a budget of more than €5.4 billion spanning 2021-2027, the LIFE Programme has co-funded around 6 500 projects since its inception 34 years ago. 
The [work programme]( for the implementation of the LIFE Programme in 2025-2027 established an overall budget of €2.3 billion for projects tackling circular economy, zero pollution, nature and biodiversity, climate mitigation and adaptation, and clean energy. The LIFE Programme is managed by the [European Climate, Infrastructure and Environment Executive Agency]( (CINEA). 
Publication date
22 April 2026 
Author
    [European Climate, Infrastructure and Environment Executive Agency](
Sign up for our LIFE Programme newsletters
[Subscribe](
Share this page 
