Story's url: https://www.pm.gov.au/media/doorstop-burwood-victoria

Transcript
Friday 8 May 2026
Burwood, Victoria
The Hon Anthony Albanese MP
Prime Minister of Australia
**CARINA GARLAND, MEMBER FOR CHISHOLM:** Good morning, everybody. I'm Carina Garland, I'm the Federal Member for Chisholm. And I'm so pleased to see so many people here today, including, of course, the Prime Minister of Australia, Anthony Albanese, the Premier of Victoria, Jacinta Allan, Ministers and State and Federal colleagues. I've lived in the southeastern and eastern suburbs of Victoria almost my entire life, and I know how important infrastructure and connectivity is for this community. I'm a really, really proud Victorian, and I'm so proud to be part of an Australian Government that cares about Victoria. We've got some exciting news for Victorians today, and I will hand over to the Prime Minister of Australia, Anthony Albanese, to tell us all more about that.
**ANTHONY ALBANESE, PRIME MINISTER:** Fantastic. Thanks, Carina, and it's great to be here with yourself, with Gabriel Ng the Member for Menzies, and, of course, Catherine King, my Minister, as well as Jacinta Allan and members of her team, for what is, as you can see, a very exciting project that is absolutely underway and going gangbusters. This is a project that will transform the way that Melbourne functions. And what we have as a Federal Government is $13 billion investing in Suburban Rail Loop, including the funds that we have to fix Sunshine Station so that it expands the capacity of the network, including for Airport Rail, and then the funds that we've committed to the east part of Suburban Rail Loop as well, with an additional $3.8 billion allocated in next Tuesday's Budget, combined with the $2.2 billion we'd already committed prior to our election in 2022. This is an investment in boosting productivity, in improving livability and sustainability, in improving the way that people can get around, what is, of course, Australia's fastest growing city, and a city that will grow to be the largest population in Australia.
For so many years, when I became the Infrastructure Minister, way back in 2007, the problem in the three eastern capitals were all very similar. There was a problem of getting through the inner networks and expanding the rail network. Now here in Melbourne, that was about the Melbourne Metro Project that I was very proud to fund. The Abbott Government got elected, they ripped the money out, the $3 billion we had allocated for that, and that meant that it opened later than it would have otherwise. But today, it is transforming Melbourne; new stations, new capacity, more people being able to take public transport. There's another element of public transport, of course, as well, which is safety. People get around a city in a safer way than they do getting around their cars, as well as saving emissions and making an enormous difference to the functioning of an effective and growing city.
This project is exciting. It will create jobs in construction, but importantly, will make an enormous difference for this growing community. I've been coming to Melbourne for a long time now, and what I've seen with suburbs that will be impacted around here, around Burwood, a place like Box Hill, has been transformed over recent decades as well. This will also enable increased housing density around public transport as an important element of this as well. Good for people as well, like me, who are visitors to Melbourne to get around when you have more effective and better public transport.
So, this is an exciting project. It's consistent with our commitment to make sure that we continue to invest in infrastructure. And importantly, under the former Government, at one stage, Victoria was getting about 8 per cent of the national share of infrastructure investment. It was simply ripped off. Previous Prime Ministers have lived in Sydney, saw Kirribilli House as the place where the Prime Minister should live, rather than The Lodge, and they've invested not in Victoria. Well, that has changed. We invest in every single state of the country, and this – in just the last week, we've had announcements as well, early on the week that I made in Perth about infrastructure investment there. But here in Melbourne, our priority has been – not just here as well, but the North East Road Upgrade that will make an enormous difference as well. So, I'm very proud.
Next Tuesday's Budget will be a good Budget based upon Labor principles. We have substantial savings in the Budget of some $64 billion of savings and reprioritisations, as has been announced today by the Treasurer and the Finance Minister. We'll continue to make sure that we build Australia's future, and part of that is building better public transport networks in our cities.
**JACINTA ALLAN, PREMIER OF VICTORIA:** Well, thank you, Prime Minister. This is a great day for Victoria, and it's a great day because it's another really powerful demonstration of how in the Prime Minister, in the Albanese Labor Government, we've got a Federal Government, we've got a partner in Canberra that backs Victoria, but most importantly, understands what we need to do as a city and state to support the great future of our city and state. And I want to thank the Prime Minister. I also would like to thank Minister Catherine King, who's with us here today, for continuing to back this project. And they're doing so because they understand that not only is this a project that's going to slash travel times, it's going to cut congestion, two really important things that a growing city needs, it's also what we see around the world. Other big cities are already delivering those orbital rail lines around the city, connecting suburbs, places where you can build more homes right next to train stations in exactly the right location.
But also too, at the heart of the Suburban Rail Loop, it's a fairness project, because it's about giving every Victorian the opportunity, whether you're a young person and you want to study here at Deakin University, or you want to study at Monash University, two big and important tertiary institutes that are currently not connected by a train line, with the Suburban Rail Loop they will be. And that means opening up so many more opportunities for young people to pursue a tertiary education. It means a nurse can get to their job more easily and more quickly at places like Box Hill Hospital or Monash Medical Centre.
And on that theme of jobs, it is about connecting more people to jobs and services in our suburbs. That's what the Suburban Rail Loop represents, and that's why it's so important that we continue to deliver and push on and deliver this project, because that point of jobs is also an important one. There's thousands of people already working on this project, and there'll be many, many more as it really does ramp up in the in the months ahead. And this is, this is about supporting jobs in the construction industry and in the supply chain right now. This means pay packets going home at the end of every week to working people and families who rely on those pay packets going home every single week. And in these uncertain times, the certainty of that is more important than ever before.
So, I really, again, want to finish by thanking the Prime Minister. And the Prime Minister touched on the other projects that are being supported by the Albanese Labor Government. If you look at the works on Airport Rail and Sunshine in the West, the works here on the Suburban Rail Loop, and then in the middle is the North East Link Project – three big road and rail projects that are ringing our city, that are being delivered in partnership by our government, with the Federal Government, and about delivering for the future needs of our city and state, and also supporting those thousands and thousands of jobs right now. We're pleased to report that the Suburban Rail Loop continues to be delivered on time, on budget, and it's again great to have that partner in Canberra who understands what Victoria needs and backs it. Thanks, PM.
**CATHERINE KING, MINISTER FOR INFRASTRUCTURE:** Thanks, Premier. It's fantastic to be here in Burwood. I'm a Ballarat girl these days, but I spent the first 25 years of my life, I was born at the old Burwood Hospital. I went to Burwood East Primary School, and I went to secondary school at Emmaus College in Burwood on Warrigal Road. So, I know this area well. I know what it's like and what a fantastic life you can have growing up as a kid in these suburbs, having the opportunities to be able to get to education. But one of the challenges I know I had was trying to get to university, to get to Monash library, to be able to get around the around the southeastern suburbs to other suburbs. Great connectivity into town from Sydney Station, but no, none of that connectivity across the suburbs. So, this really is, I know, a game changer, providing the opportunity, not just for the movement of people through passenger rail, but also housing, providing that opportunity for retail. 75,000 new houses along the route of Suburban Rail for kids to have the opportunity that I did, to grow up in the suburbs of Melbourne and have a great life. So, this is really what this project is about. It's about livability for people in the southeast, connectivity, about jobs, that opportunity to go to Deakin, to go to Monash University and really have a fantastic life here in the suburbs. I'm really proud to be part of a government that is investing in rail projects, $3.8 billion additional money announced today. I know this will be a game changer for the way people move about Melbourne. I'm going to hand over to Nick Staikos, who's taken on this project now, and it's great to actually be able to work with him. Worked with him on the Local Government portfolio, but now great to be able to be here working with him on this magnificent infrastructure project as well, Nick.
**NICK STAIKOS, MINISTER FOR THE SUBURBAN RAIL LOOP:** Well, thank you, Prime Minister and Minister King, for this very, very important announcement in the future of the Suburban Rail Loop and the future of Melbourne. Melbourne is a city that by 2050 will be the size that London is today. And London has infrastructure like this. Look at the Elizabeth Line in London, which is connecting to radial lines throughout Greater London. And what the experience has been in London, when you build infrastructure like the Elizabeth Line, you're then also building thousands of homes near the stations and creating thousands of jobs. And that is what we will achieve here with the Suburban Rail Loop. It's great to have a strong partner in Canberra assisting Victoria to deliver this city, shaping infrastructure that is creating jobs. We'll have the tunnel boring machines in the ground this year. Tunnel boring machines don't go backwards, they only go forwards, unlike the Liberal Party.
**PRIME MINISTER:** Happy to take questions.
**JOURNALIST:**[inaudible] where is the rest of the money coming from, the $34.5 billion the project is meant to be?
**PRIME MINISTER:** We already have $2.2 billion that's flowed into this project that has assisted with the early works that we're seeing here. You'll see all of the details in our Budget on Tuesday night.
**JOURNALIST:** Will we have to wait four years, five years?
**PRIME MINISTER:** You'll see all, you'll see all of the money flow from Tuesday night in our Budget. 7:30pm, Jim Chalmers, tune in.
**JOURNALIST:** Did the Victorian Government ask for more?
**PRIME MINISTER:** The Victorian Government and I negotiated, as we always do, constructively, constructively in order to deliver what was necessary to make sure that this project is full steam ahead.
**JOURNALIST:**[inaudible]
**PRIME MINISTER:** We'll make announcements when we make them, as we go. But a $3.8 billion announcement – it always strikes me as somewhat strange that when you announce a $3.8 billion commitment in a Budget, in one, two, three, four sleeps to go. You get asked about what next. This will flow. You'll see that on Tuesday night.
**JOURNALIST:**[inaudible] $34.5 billion, is the project so [inaudible]?
**PRIME MINISTER:** What we have is budgets that commit money through our forward estimates process. You'll see that on Tuesday night.
**JOURNALIST:** Is it too expensive?
**PRIME MINISTER:** No, you'll see that on Tuesday night. I'll tell you what is, what costs money. What costs money is not building proper infrastructure. That's what costs money through urban congestion, through people not getting around, people not having homes to live in, close to public transport, universities that don't boost productivity as well. We are committed to investment in infrastructure, because that is how you grow an economy. That is one of the best things you can do to boost productivity. And as Nick said, one of the things about the great cities of the world, whether it's Paris, New York, London, they all have not rail networks that go all to one point at the equivalent of Central Station. What they have is radial networks as well that enable people to get around a city without going into the middle and then back out again. And that is what this vision does. It's also what the Metro is doing in Sydney, including the work that's underway to the airport there. It's also what Cross River Rail will do, expand the network in Brisbane. And in Perth, because they have invested as well, you've seen, I think, all of their new lines now up and running, and the Commonwealth has been a partner in that. And what that is enabling is for people in places like Ellenbrook in Perth, very similar to this community here, to get around and get that access.
**JOURNALIST:** PM, is the $3.8 billion in a lockbox only to be used for this project? If the Victorian Liberals win in November and want to use it towards another project?
**PRIME MINISTER:** We fund projects. We don't fund theories. We fund projects. This one is kind of underway, you might've noticed. It's off and running. The money is for this project.
**JOURNALIST:** Infrastructure Australia has previously cast doubt on the $34.5 billion price tag. What reason do you have to be confident that that actually is what it's going to cost?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Infrastructure Australia has put this on its priority list. It's been assessed. They've approved.
**JOURNALIST:** What information did you receive or did IA receive between that first assessment that said that they had no confidence in the costings or the benefits? What turned things around?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Infrastructure Australia is an independent body. They go through their assessments. They did that. I don't know if Catherine wants to add anything. Do you want to add anything there?
**MINISTER KING:** You know this portfolio as well as I do, Prime Minister. So, the Victorian Government and Infrastructure Australia work very closely in terms of the data that was required for Infrastructure Australia to make their decision. And again, they provide advice to me when we are making investment decisions, unlike under the previous Government where they were completely sidelined and ignored. You'll note the new priority list has come out and Suburban Rail Loop East is well and truly on that priority list, and that's why we're delighted to partner with Victorian Government to fund it.
**JOURNALIST:** Repeated authorities have found that the project doesn't stack up. The Australian National Audit Office, the Auditor-General --
**MINISTER KING:** Infrastructure Australia has got this project on its national priority list.
**JOURNALIST:** Why should there be no doubt with this project, considering it's still not fully underway?
**MINISTER KING:** It's on Infrastructure Australia's priority list and what we have done, what we have done with our investment is follow the contract. The $3.8 billion that we've got is part of the contracting that the Victorian Government has done, and that's why we've chosen that amount of money. We'll of course look in future budgets for what the next contracting is, whether additional funding is required from the Commonwealth, but this is $2.2 billion for the early works, you can see that happening now, $3.8 billion for the tunnel contracting that we're now part of.
**JOURNALIST:**[inaudible].
**MINISTER KING:** Again, I would just say we are following the contracts and that's what we've done and that's why Infrastructure Australia has this project on the priority list. It is a game changer, a game changer for Melbourne.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, are you concerned, there've been allegations that some of the crime and organised crime groups [inaudible]. How can you be sure this money isn't going to end up in the hands of criminals?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, there's no place for crime in Australia in any form. That's the clear priority that all governments have. The Victorian Government, it's a commitment that we share. On Infrastructure Australia, I set up Infrastructure Australia. I know the way that it works and it is absolutely normal for a government to be giving, allocating money based upon the contracts which are issued at the time.
**JOURNALIST:** One of the contractors for the SRL is WeBuild. The New South Wales Government has taken decisive action in light of the evidence that WeBuild engaged subcontractors involved in questionable, essentially illegal behaviour. Are you concerned that Victoria has shown no such appetite to track down on alleged corruption in its construction sector?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, that's not right. When there is corruption in any form, it should be dealt with seriously, should be dealt with by the police. That's what's happening with some of the allegations here and that's what's happening in New South Wales as well.
**JOURNALIST:** Do you see any contrast between those two approaches between New South Wales and Victoria?
**PRIME MINISTER:** I see there's no tolerance for any corruption by any government in Australia and that's as it should be.
**JOURNALIST:** Prime Minister, the ISIS brides arrived in Melbourne and Sydney last night. Your governments have both said that the children will be asked to undergo reintegration programs. What if their guardians or their parents just say no?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, we'll deal with these issues in an appropriate way. There's been a lot of talk on these issues which simply just doesn't stack up. One of the things that divides our society from the lawless barbarity of ISIS is that we believe in the rule of law. And the rule of law means if you're an Australian citizen, you have some entitlements. So, I've seen comments from various Coalition figures and some in the media that they know is simply not true. So, we provided no support for these people. They were not brought back. It is correct that the US government and others urged us to do so. We chose to make our own decisions as a sovereign state and not to provide them with any support because I have absolutely zero sympathy for these people. I do have sympathy for the children though, who are victims of decisions that their parents have made. We will work through these issues. It is appropriate that they undergo support, children who've been subject and exposed to all sorts of horrors in those camps, those camps with a big presence of ISIS and that terrible, horrific ideology which seeks to destroy our way of life.
**JOURNALIST:** Why didn't you offer any support to those innocent children?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, they were victims of their parents.
**JOURNALIST:** And because of your indifference -- you could've helped them to bring them home.
**PRIME MINISTER:** No, they're victims of their parents. We weren't about to go in and to those camps and engage in that action. We made that very clear.
**JOURNALIST:** What welfare benefits might they apply for and if they do apply them, will they receive them?
**PRIME MINISTER:** A few of them are in the clink if you haven't noticed. They got arrested and they'll be charged today -
**JOURNALIST:** There is a woman who hasn't been arrested.
**PRIME MINISTER:** And appropriate actions will be taken by the authorities. I have faith in our authorities in the Australian Federal Police, in ASIO, in ASIS, in all of our security agencies. I'll back them. I'll allow them to do their job and that's precisely what they have done over a long period of time, including preparing for any potential arrival that occurred, as we've said. Australian citizens do have rights, but we have a right as a government to ensure that the law is upheld and these people will face the full force of the law.
**JOURNALIST:** Anika Wells has had to repay $10,000 for breaches of the expense rules. Your Government's trying to save money. Why shouldn't she resign?
**PRIME MINISTER:** She's paid back the money. We have IPEA. We have an Independent Parliamentary Expenses Authority who's in charge of this. She referred herself to it, which was appropriate, and it was appropriate that she pay back the money. That has been done.
**JOURNALIST:** She broke the rules.
**PRIME MINISTER:** And she has paid back the money in accordance with the rules.
**JOURNALIST:** Doesn't this send a bad message to the public, though, that if you do the wrong thing and you get caught, you just pay it back?
**PRIME MINISTER:** She has done what the rules require. Anika Wells is a very good minister doing extraordinary work. And I note, to give News Corp a shout out, today I spoke to, or had contact with, texting each other, with Mel Pilling. That was the person behind the Let Them Be Kids campaign. That campaign has won two awards overnight in Berlin. This is world-leading legislation to make a difference for our kids and to allow them to be kids as the campaign has said. And I pay tribute particularly to the parents of those young people who have taken their lives. Those parents showed incredible courage to take what was an incredibly traumatic experience and channel that into something positive for others, so that other parents haven't had to grieve like they have. The fact that countries around the world, whether it be New Zealand, Denmark, the UK, Spain, Greece, Indonesia, are following Australia's lead is something that Australia should be really proud of.
**JOURNALIST:** Anika Wells has apologised. Is that enough? Should she resign?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Anika Wells has apologised. She has paid it back, the money has been paid, as was appropriate -
**JOURNALIST:** Should she resign?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Bridget McKenzie breached a range of flights while campaigning about people not making declarations. It came out that there were more than a dozen non-declarations that she had made. She did that, and she remains a shadow minister in a senior position. Indeed, she's Deputy Leader of the Nationals in the Senate.
**JOURNALIST:** Anika Wells has only apologised though because she was caught out. The system shouldn't work that way.
**PRIME MINISTER:** That's not right. She referred herself, herself to IPEA. IPEA have brought down their findings and it has been done in a transparent way.
**JOURNALIST:** No punishment from you?
**PRIME MINISTER:** It's been done in a transparent way. The punishment is what IPEA have said, for her to pay back $10,000. That has been done.
**JOURNALIST:** The Labor party doesn't have a candidate in the Farrer byelection this weekend. So, what does success look like to you?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Oh, look, I think I went to Albury before any other leader. I spoke to our party members there. Byelections are expensive exercises. The prospect of Labor winning that seat, we've never held that seat. In the election last year, it was between Sussan Ley and the Independent ran second. What we're really seeing though here is the demise of the Liberal and National parties. This is a seat where the Liberal Party was formed when Robert Menzies went and had the meeting in Albury. It's a seat that was held by its leader who, during a funeral for one of the Liberals' colleagues who was not successful at the last election, they had a meeting in order to remove Sussan Ley as leader of the Liberal Party. And then they wonder why they have a problem with the women's vote in Australia and in Victoria in particular. What we're seeing here, if the Liberal Party can't win a seat held by its leader at the beginning of this year, a leader who I note has been absent from supporting that party during this by election, then that would be extraordinary. Tim Fisher, of course, as Deputy Prime Minister and leader of the National Party, proudly held that seat. I regarded Tim Fisher as a friend. I attended his funeral in Albury, his memorial service. He would have loved this project. I'll say that about Tim Fisher. He was a complete rail nerd. When it came to that, I appointed him to the High Speed Rail Authority Board as well. He would have loved this project, because he understood how important rail is. I find it incredible if the Liberal Party and the National Party don't finish in the top two, that would be an extraordinary outcome tomorrow.
**JOURNALIST:** Who do you see having success, though? Is it One Nation?
**PRIME MINISTER:** Well, I'm not a commentator. I'll leave the commentating to you fine people at this press conference. What I would say is that it's extraordinary that the Liberal Party have attempted to chase One Nation down the far right rabbit hole. They've attempted to do that. They continue to engage with extraordinary hyperbole on everything, dialling everything up to 11, and then they wonder why people don't take them seriously as an alternative government. This byelection is a test for Angus Taylor and it's a test for Matt Canavan and we'll see what the people of Farrer think of them tomorrow when they vote in the Farrer byelection. Thanks very much.
E&OE
Suburban Rail Loop; Melbourne Airport Rail; Infrastructure; Federal Budget; Foreign Fighters' Families; Parliamentary Expenses; Farrer Byelection
