The Australian Government acknowledges the outstanding leadership of Pat Turner AM as she concludes her tenure as Chief Executive Officer of the National Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation (NAACHO) and Lead Convenor of the Coalition of Peaks. 
A proud Gudanji-Arrernte woman, Pat Turner is a true giant of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander affairs and Aboriginal Community Controlled Health. 
Pat is a fierce and formidable advocate and has dedicated her life to the wellbeing and self-determination of First Nations people and communities.
Her extensive career has strengthened the community controlled sector, elevated the voice of First Nations organisations in national policy, championing partnership between governments and First Nations communities. 
As the Lead Convenor of the Coalition of Peaks, Pat played an instrumental role in negotiating and implementing the National Agreement on Closing the Gap, securing a historic shared decision-making framework between governments and First Nations community-controlled organisations. 
As Co-Chair of the Joint Council on Closing the Gap, Pat has worked in partnership with the Commonwealth and State and Territory Governments to deliver on the National Agreement to improve life outcomes for First Nations people. 
She’s demonstrated an unwavering commitment to ensuring that policies affecting First Nations people are shaped by those communities. This work will leave a lasting national impact.
Under Pat’s leadership at NACCHO, the Aboriginal Community Controlled Health sector has continued to expand, innovate and deliver culturally safe, community-driven health services. 
Pat has always been driven by a steely resolve that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have the answers to Closing the Gap; what they need is the agency to determine their own futures.
Pat Turner’s remarkable career achievements will leave a legacy that will continue to shape national conversations about health equity, community empowerment, self-determination and Closing the Gap.
On behalf of the Government, we thank Pat for her service to the nation.
“Pat is a formidable advocate and our nation is a better place because of her.
“Her tireless efforts have held governments to account, and she has worked hard to build strong working partnerships with First Nations people.
“She leaves her role with our thanks, and with our deep respect.”
“I extend my deep gratitude to Pat for her decades of service, courage and unwavering commitment to improving outcomes First Nations people. 
“Pat is one of those rare leaders who makes you feel seen, heard and challenged, all at the same time. Her strength is matched only by her generosity.
“Pat has always brought heart to her work. Even in the most challenging times, she found a way to remind us all of why we do what we do.”
