Story's url: https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/en/web/products-eurostat-news/w/ddn-20260421-1

Enter search term
Search
Close
Menu
Back Previous items Next items
    *       * Explore data
    *       * Advanced tools and services
    *       * Quality and European statistics
    *       * Collections
    *         * [ Statistics Explained ](
    *       * Who we are
    *       * Our work
    *       * Our partners
    *       * Working with us
© Matej Kastelic/Shutterstock.com
Up to February 2026, the [price]( of fuels and lubricants for personal transport in the [EU]( was generally decreasing, for the EU average and for most of EU countries. However, it increased significantly in March 2026. 
In March 2026, the price of fuels and lubricants in the EU increased by 12.9% compared with March 2025. Almost all EU countries saw price increases compared with March 2025 as well. The highest increases were recorded in Germany (+19.8%), Romania (+19.6%), the Netherlands (+18.8%), Latvia (+18.5%) and Austria (+17.2%). In Hungary and Slovenia, prices decreased by 2.7% and 5.9%, respectively, compared with March 2025; however, compared with February 2026, the decrease was not as pronounced. 
Source dataset: [prc_hicp_manr](
Looking at diesel and petrol prices in the EU, in March 2026, they increased by 19.8% for diesel and 9.4% for petrol compared with March 2025. On a monthly basis, consumers saw diesel prices rise by 19.1% and petrol prices rise by 10.6% in the EU compared with February 2026. 
Prices for both types of fuel went up in all EU countries between February and March 2026. For diesel, the highest increases were in Czechia and Sweden (both +27.6%), Estonia (+26.8%), Latvia (+25.4%), Belgium (+25.2%) and the Netherlands (+25.1%), while the lowest increases were in Slovenia (+2.9%), Slovakia and Hungary (both +7.0%). All other EU countries saw increases above 10%. 
Among EU countries, petrol prices increases were not as high as those in diesel prices, reaching +15.1% in Belgium, +15.0% in Sweden, +14.8% in Austria, +14.6% in Czechia and +14.2% in Estonia and Lithuania. Again, the lowest monthly increases were registered in Slovenia (+2.4%), Slovakia (+3.8%), Hungary (+4.7%), as well as Italy (+4.8%). 
Source dataset: [prc_hicp_manr](
  * This information was obtained from the [harmonised index of consumer prices]( (HICP), which is mainly used to measure inflation. 
  * Fuel prices in Malta have been regulated since 2020.
  * The [ECOICOP version 2]( codes used for this article were: 
    * CP0722- Fuels and lubricants for personal transport equipment
    * CP07221 - Diesel
    * CP07222 - Petrol
For information on upcoming releases, visit our [release calendar]( If you have any queries, please visit our [contact us]( page.
Share this page:
[ © GH Studio/Shutterstock.com European Statistical Monitor: April edition  16 April 2026  ]( [ © GH Studio/Shutterstock.com European Statistical Monitor: March edition  19 March 2026  ]( [ © stokkete/stock.adobe.com Save the date: webinar on HICP  2 March 2026  ]( [ © GH Studio/Shutterstock.com European Statistical Monitor: February edition  19 February 2026  ](
Hidden
Rate this page
Select the number of stars that correspond to your rating
5 stars 4 stars 3 stars 2 stars 1 star
Success
Your rating has been submitted.
Give us more feedback
Click this radio box. Help us improve your experience - tell us any problems you had.
Please choose one of the options.
I cannot find the information I am looking for
I found mistake(s) in the text
I had a technical problem with this page
Other issue
Enter your name Please briefly describe the issue.
Do not include any personal information.
300/300 characters remaining
I accept the terms & conditions.
Submit my feedback 
