<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.pm.gov.au/media/radio-interview-nova-brisbane-1

**HOST** : Please welcome to the show the biggest Maroons fan known to man, Anthony ‘Albo’ Albanese.
**HOST** : Hey, Queenslander.
**ANTHONY ALBANESE, PRIME MINISTER** : What an introduction that is. Not what I was expecting.
**HOST:** You're welcome.
**HOST** : I didn't know you were a Queensland supporter, Anthony.
**PRIME MINISTER** : Happy Origin Day for everyone.
**HOST:** Very political.
**PRIME MINISTER:** And we can all be friends at this stage, can't we? Until eight o'clock and then it's on.
**HOST** : Mate, yeah, Origin – we'll talk about, I want to get, want to get your thoughts on the tip for Origin but also want to talk about Rugby League World Cup this year, which Brisbane has some great games by the way. And there's a men's, I think the men's in that there's a women's final too. I'm just reading up on it today about the women's game which is obviously going strength and strength, but you guys throwing your weight behind it, obviously acknowledging it as a pretty important event on the calendar this year.
**PRIME MINISTER** : We are. It's going to be fantastic. And right after the season ends it'll keep going with the Rugby League World Cup. We know how big the Women's Soccer World Cup was for Australia, and for young people going along and getting enthused about getting off their devices and onto the footy fields. And we want people to play sport rather than be on their devices, particularly young people. And this will be fantastic. We'll bring all these countries to Australia as the host for men's and women's. There'll be games there in Brisbane, but also Sydney, Perth, Townsville and Newcastle. And there'll be games in Papua New Guinea to lay a bit of groundwork for when the Chiefs come in. And of course New Zealand. And it will be fantastic. We're the defending champion for both men and women. And I'm sure we can keep the trophies at home and this is one way we can all unite the Blues and the Maroons will all be cheering for the one team when the Rugby League World Cup’s on.
**HOST** : Exactly. We'll all come together. I know Rugby League's not an Olympic sport at this stage, but leading into the Brisbane Olympics they have this thing called the Green and Gold Runway. They're trying to bring as many international competitions to Australia as they can. This is sort of the first of it, is it? Or one of the first ones. We've got Rugby Union next year, some paddling comps they're talking about bringing down here as well. So, it's such an exciting time, isn't it, for Australia and Brisbane leading into the Olympics 2032?
**PRIME MINISTER** : It sure is. And the Brisbane Olympics will be transformative. It will just be fantastic. You know, there was some cynicism in the lead up to Sydney 2000, I remember, and I know some people who left Sydney at that time, to rent out their places to people and they all regret it because it was just such a fantastic time and it will, Brisbane, of course, is a great global city already, but it will put it really on the global map and there'll be events all throughout Queensland as well. I think it's going to be so exciting. And part of the preparation is bringing these international events here, so that you get a bit of practice at everything from security to transport to all of those measures that are needed. And for Rugby League bringing people, of course, the diasporas will be very excited as well. We have large populations of people from countries like Tonga and Samoa as well as, of course, there's a few Kiwis in Southeast Queensland –
**HOST** : Did you see the crowd of the Warriors v. The Broncos at the Magic Round –
**HOST:** Was all Warriors.
**HOST:** Was all Warriors. They came up –
**PRIME MINISTER** : It looked like a Warriors home game.
**HOST:** It did, didn’t it?
**HOST** : Well, technically it was, pretty much.
**HOST** : Pretty much was.
**HOST** : But you're right, as Susie said, these events pre-Olympics are one of the, one of the most important things we can, we can achieve out of this. Are you in – where are you? Are you in Sydney? I'm just going to get a weather check with Origin. Are you in that neck of the woods tonight?
**PRIME MINISTER** : I'm in Canberra, so I'll be watching it on the television tonight. We'll probably have a few Queenslanders and Blues supporters around to watch it on the telly when Parliament finishes.
**HOST** : So, who do you have over? Do you have other politicians over or do you have –
**HOST** : A good question.
**HOST** : Do you have friends outside politics that you can invite over so you don't have to, you know, talk politics all the time?
**PRIME MINISTER** : Yeah, we'll probably have pollies, that's the truth. Anika Wells, though, she gets so excited –
**HOST:** Proud Queenslander.
**PRIME MINISTER:** And Jim Chalmers, they're all very passionate. You got to be very careful of what tie you wear on Origin Day because if you wear the wrong colour, you'll be in big trouble. So, I of course will be wearing a blue tie today.
**HOST** : I always say Albo that you're –
**HOST:** It’s very Liberal –
**HOST:** Political joke.
**HOST:** I always say you're your worst version of yourself on Origin Day because you get passionate. How do you go like, do you get your, do you swear a little bit? Get your bogan on when you're watching it?
**PRIME MINISTER** : Oh yeah, I do a little bit. You know any team that I follow seems to get the rough end of the pineapple from referees.
**HOST** : Here we go.
**HOST** : There it is.
**PRIME MINISTER** : It's just the way that it happens. But I remember the days of – Mr. Gomersall was an interesting referee –
**HOST:** The Grasshopper.
**HOST:** Yeah, he was the –
**HOST:** He was the Queensland referee there. Everyone's all the Blues, they hate him. Say he was biased. He used to love Wally.
**PRIME MINISTER:** He should have worn a Maroons jumper.
**HOST:** No.
**HOST:** Here we go.
**HOST** : We got Ashley Klein, now he's a Blue. So, anyway, no, well, Albo, mate, thanks for coming on.
**HOST** : It should be a cracker tonight. Enjoy it, mate.
**PRIME MINISTER** : Yeah, well, happy Origin Day everyone. It'll be absolutely fantastic. It's really good. Congrats to the NRL too. Just a shout out to Andrew Abdo, retiring CEO. I think he's done a fantastic job.
**HOST** : Incredible job. And keep, keep funding sport. It's an important thing for the country. It’s a cultural, important thing.
**PRIME MINISTER** : Absolutely it is. In the end there's a whole lot of science as well, tells you that if we get kids playing sport and people being fitter, it actually saves money on the health Budget and everything else as well.
**HOST:** Of course it does.
**PRIME MINISTER:** So, important for people's mental health.
**HOST** : And that's how we'll be judged on the Brisbane Olympics is how well the team goes. So, you have to make sure we keep funding the athletes.
**HOST:** There you go.
**HOST** : That's from Susie O’Neill.
**HOST:** Yeah.
**PRIME MINISTER** : We made sure all the Olympic funding is there. And we did so well even, even in the Winter Olympics.
**HOST** : Best ever. Six gold medals.
**HOST:** Yes we did.
**PRIME MINISTER** : Exceptionally.
**HOST:** Six medals.
**HOSTl** Anyway, Albo mate, good to chat. Thanks. And –
**HOST:** Queenslander!
**HOST:** Queenslander!
**PRIME MINISTER** : See you guys.
=======
Story's url: https://www.accc.gov.au/media-release/permanent-ban-on-baby-bottle-self-feeding-devices-now-in-effect

26 May 2026
[Buying and selling products and services](
[Problem with a product or service](
A permanent ban on baby bottle self-feeding devices, due to the risk of injury or death, is now in effect.
The ban applies to products that position a baby bottle, or bottle teat, so an infant can self-feed without another person holding the bottle or without adult supervision. Key safety risks include injury or death from choking, aspiration or suffocation.
As a result of the ban, it is illegal to supply or offer to supply these devices in Australia. It is also illegal to manufacture, possess, or have control of a banned product.
The Assistant Minister has announced the ban on these devices. This follows a Safety Warning Notice issued in August 2024 and a subsequent ACCC investigation into the safety of these devices, which included consultation with a paediatric health expert and healthcare stakeholders.
Businesses must not manufacture, advertise or sell baby bottle self-feeding devices. Significant penalties may apply for non-compliance.
“Each year, we set our product safety priorities to target and increase awareness of high-risk unsafe consumer goods. This year, our focus has been on unsafe products sold in digital markets and product safety issues for young children,” ACCC Deputy Chair Catriona Lowe said.
“Baby bottle self-feeding devices pose an unacceptable risk of injury or death to infants as a result of choking, suffocation and aspiration, as babies do not have the ability to regulate the flow of milk or remove the bottle from their mouth themselves.”
“This permanent ban makes clear that products which undermine safe infant feeding practices will not be tolerated in the Australian market. Suppliers should be aware that it is now illegal to supply these products in Australia, and penalties may apply for businesses that do not comply.”
“We urge consumers to stop using these devices immediately and to always actively supervise babies during feeding,” Ms Lowe said.
**Products covered by the ban**
The ban applies to products that are designed to allow a baby to feed from a bottle without another person holding the bottle, and which are designed to do so by supporting the position of the bottle or by means of a straw, tube or similar device. This includes:
  * products that position a bottle in an infant’s mouth (bottle propping)
  * products worn on a person’s body that hold a bottle used for feeding a baby
  * straw-style feeding devices where the teat is connected to the bottle via a flexible straw
The ban does not extend to supplemental nursing systems used to support breastfeeding, or to ‘sippy’ cups, trainer cups and straw cups intended for drinking rather than as a baby’s sole source of nutrition.
_Images of items captured by the ban, sourced from products identified as for sale online_
_Baby self-feeding pillows_
_Flexible arm device_
**Advice for consumers**
  * If you have purchased or own a baby bottle self-feeding device, you should immediately stop using it and dispose of it safely so that it cannot be used by anyone else.
  * Always follow government safety baby feeding advice, which advises to [never prop a bottle and never leave an infant to feed unsupervised.(link is external) ](
  * If you are aware of baby bottle self-feeding devices subject to the ban being supplied or offered for supply in Australia, you can [report an unsafe product(link is external) ]( to the ACCC.
**Information for suppliers**
  * It is against the law to supply or offer to supply these devices to Australian consumers.
  * It is also against the law to manufacture, possess or have control of a banned product.
  * If you become aware that you are supplying a banned product, you must immediately stop supplying the product. You should conduct a product recall and let consumers know, and notify the ACCC within two days of taking recall action.
  * Suppliers who fail to comply with permanent bans under the Australian Consumer Law may face enforcement action that may attract significant fines and pecuniary penalties.
  * You can find more information about the [permanent ban(link is external) ]( on the ACCC Product Safety website.
42/26
[Submit an online enquiry]( " to ask a question or you can   
[make a report]( " to help us understand where there are problems.
media@accc.gov.au or 1300 138 917. The media team is only able to answer requests and questions from journalists. Please only call this number if you are a journalist.
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
