Story's url: https://www.pm.gov.au/media/strengthening-energy-security-japan

Australia and Japan have reached an agreement to further strengthen energy security in our region.
Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia and Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi of Japan met in Canberra today and issued the 
Australia and Japan will work together to support the flow of essential goods - including fuel and gas - between our countries.
The two nations are also committed to working together to support continued energy security across the region.
Australia provides approximately one-third of Japan’s energy supply, and it is our largest market for liquified natural gas.
Japan is also a reliable supplier of refined petroleum and diesel to Australia.
The Joint Statement highlights Australia’s commitment as a reliable energy supplier to Japan and demonstrates our shared commitment to open, rules-based trade and supporting the flow of essential energy goods between our countries.
“Like Japan, we are very concerned by disruptions to the supply of liquid fuels and refined petroleum products.
“It is clear from the fuel crisis that energy is critical for our shared economic security, and we are both committed to keeping the flow of energy between us open.
“Our Joint Statement on Energy Security commits us to supporting open trade in liquid fuels, which will help build confidence with consumers and business on fuel supply.”
“Australia and Japan are close and trusted partners, and that matters more than ever at a time of uncertainty in global energy markets.
“We are committed to working together to support our mutual energy security and that of our region.”
"We are continuing to secure essential fuel supplies and work with partners around the world to strengthen energy security at home and abroad.
“This Joint Statement on Energy Security will help secure fuel supplies for both Australia and Japan and shield consumers from global uncertainty.”
