Story's url: https://energy.ec.europa.eu/news/introducing-2026-cohort-young-energy-ambassadors-2026-04-21_en

The Commission is delighted to announce the new 2026 cohort of [_Young Energy Ambassadors_]( - a dynamic group of young innovators, advocates and visionaries passionate about Europe’s clean energy transition.
Once again, there were a very high number of responses to the Commission’s call for interest with almost 600 high-quality applications. After a rigorous selection process, 30 outstanding individuals have been chosen to serve as ambassadors for a one-year mandate, bringing fresh perspectives, expertise, and determination to Europe’s energy transition.
Spanning 25 European countries, ranging from Norway to Greece and from Ireland to Ukraine, this year’s ambassadors draw on various backgrounds such as engineering, research, law, economics or policy. Their work ranges from grassroots activism and community energy projects to high-level policy advocacy and cutting-edge research, ensuring a well-rounded approach to Europe’s energy challenges.
Their mandate begins at the [_EU Sustainable Energy Week (EUSEW 2026)_]( in Brussels, starting on June 9, and runs through to June 2027. Over the coming year, they will contribute with their expertise and perspectives to ongoing discussions about EU energy issues, notably policy-making and the broader clean energy transition across Europe, including in their local contexts.
The 4th cohort of Young Energy Ambassadors is set to, just like its predecessors, provide further momentum in the public debate: their energy, ideas, and leadership will help shape tomorrow!
Publication date
21 April 2026 
Author
    [Directorate-General for Energy](
Share this page 
