<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://djsir.vic.gov.au/news-and-articles/new-defence-manufacturing-facility-to-boost-victorias-sovereign-capabilities

[Home](
[News and articles]( New defence manufacturing facility to boost Victoria’s sovereign capabilities
News
**Published:** 25 May 2026 
The opening of Corvus Technology Solutions’ new Bayswater North manufacturing facility.
Corvus Technology Solutions has opened a new state-of-the-art defence manufacturing facility in Melbourne’s southeast. It is creating 49 new high skilled jobs.
The facility will produce in-arm suspension units for armoured vehicles. Assembly at the Bayswater North facility expects to generate significant flow-on benefits for the state’s supply chain. This is valued at an estimated $45 million over 6 years.
The suspension units will be fitted to the Australian Army’s AS21 Redback vehicle that are being manufactured at 
We're supporting Corvus to establish its new facility and strengthen its capabilities. This is through the Supply Chain Investment and Supply Chain Uplift Programs under the $10 million [Victorian Land Systems Fund]( The fund helps local businesses join Hanwha’s supply chain to:
  * drive growth in defence manufacturing
  * create high-skilled jobs across Victoria.
The [Victorian Defence Vision Statement]( outlines our vision to leverage the state’s nation-leading capabilities in:
  * advanced manufacturing
  * workforce talent
  * defence-related research and development.
The sector contributes around $10.9 billion annually to our economy and employ over 29,000 workers across Victoria.
Learn more about 
=======
Story's url: https://www.pm.gov.au/media/visit-australia-prime-minister-solomon-islands-1

[ Listen ]( "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker")
Prime Minister Anthony Albanese will welcome the Prime Minister of Solomon Islands, The Hon Matthew Wale CBE, to Canberra for a Leaders’ Meeting on Wednesday, 3 June 2026.
The visit will mark Prime Minister Wale’s first official international visit since taking office in May 2026, and follows a phone call between leaders on Friday, 15 May 2026.
Prime Minister Wale will be accompanied by senior Cabinet ministers from the Solomon Islands Government.
Australia and Solomon Islands are committed to advancing a peaceful and stable region through enhancing our development and economic partnership, strengthening our security cooperation, and bolstering climate resilience.
Prime Minister Albanese will host Prime Minister Wale and his delegation at Parliament House to discuss opportunities for further economic, development and security cooperation.
“I congratulate Prime Minister Wale on his recent appointment and look forward to welcoming him to Australia.
“Prime Minister Wale’s decision to make Australia his first official international visit emphasises the importance of the relationship between our nations.
“Despite the global challenges we confront, we recognise we are stronger facing these together as partners.”
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
