<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://iceds.anu.edu.au/news-events/news/climate-modellers-are-crucial-heres-whats-stake-reduced-funding

Publication date
Monday, 25 May 2026
Body
By: [**Andy Hogg**]( [**Sarah Perkins-Kirkpatrick**]( 
CSIRO has told staff it will cut 92 positions in its environment unit – just days after the Australian government boosted funding to the national science agency by A$387 million.
Our scientific colleagues have told us roughly a third of CSIRO’s climate modellers will lose their jobs – between four and six roles out of about 15 scientists. These cuts come on the back of decades of slow but steady reductions in funding in the same area. This threatens Australia’s ability to do its own climate modelling at a time when the United States has 
The cuts pose a direct threat to Australia’s climate model, known as ACCESS (
If ACCESS funding is reduced, Australia will have less ability to model how climate change will affect us. That means less ability to forecast how threats such as sea-level rise will play out and plan how we adapt.
Our scientific colleagues have been told these plans include cutting roughly a third of the approximately 15 scientists who look after ACCESS – a foundational climate program that few people know about.
A climate model is a computer simulation of Earth’s climate system. It might sound abstract, but its findings are extremely important to all of us.
Global climate models such as ACCESS began as scientific tools to study Earth’s changing climate. But they have become much more than that. These sophisticated models have become vital for policymakers who have to take critical decisions at global, national and local levels.
The landmark 2015 
CSIRO has developed and run this climate model for several decades, even as budgets shrank. Ten years ago, 
Now the loss of these scientists means we face the threat of losing the capability of having an Australian global climate model altogether, alongside our credibility in international climate modelling efforts.
While we experience yet another cut to climate modelling, climate models elsewhere, 
  * how do we ensure our climate adaptation strategies are sound and will not further fuel the cost-of-living crisis?
  * how will the changing weather affect our ability to reach net zero in Australia, the Indo-Pacific region and globally?
  * how might sea-level rise be locally distributed and interact with changing local weather conditions to amplify flooding?
Without a well-supported ACCESS, we are at grave risk of not being able to answer these questions in Australia.
This threat to our sovereign capability seems short-sighted. Australia has long collaborated with overseas scientists and agencies and used their data. But this is becoming less certain.
In the US, 
ACCESS is the only global climate model developed in the southern hemisphere.
Our soils, landscapes and vegetation are unique. So too is the weather and climate that shape them.
Crucially, these factors are very different to those in the northern hemisphere. Models built in Europe, such as at the UK Meteorological Office, naturally focus on processes that affect European climates. The same is true for other regions and nations.
So who, if not us, is going to build and sustain a global model with Australia squarely in mind?
Beyond our own shores, Australia has been an active member of the international community collaborating to provide projections of our future climate since the 1990s.
In the past, we were recognised as a scientific powerhouse. This reputation enhanced our credibility at negotiating tables all over the world, none more so than at the annual United Nations climate talks, the next edition of which will be 
Losing the ability to properly contribute our global model to future UN-led climate assessments by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change will undoubtedly diminish our standing as a nation well beyond the climate science community.
But make no mistake, it will affect that community, too. We speak to the next generation of climate scientists every day when working with students and research fellows. Worryingly, more and more of them ask whether there is a future for them here. The answer used to be obvious. It no longer is. The threat of brain drain will become a reality.
All this makes today an important day for Australia. Are we going to follow those nations that are decreasing the funding for climate science? Or will we join those investing in developing the scientific capabilities that allows their citizens and governments to plan with confidence?
We still have a choice.
_In a statement, a spokesperson for CSIRO said it will retain its climate science capability and continue to provide the data, models and scenarios needed to support decision-making in Australia and internationally._
_They said CSIRO is making “essential strategic research shifts” to focus its efforts on where it can deliver the greatest national impact. “To achieve this sharpened focus, we are exiting research where we lack scale to achieve significant impact, or areas where others in the sector are better placed to deliver.”_
_The changes affect some roles that were previously connected to the ACCESS program, the spokesperson said._
_“As the ACCESS modelling system matured from a development program into an operational national capability, CSIRO worked with partners to transition responsibility for its ongoing stewardship into sustained national research infrastructure through the establishment of ACCESS‑NRI which now supports and maintains ACCESS as open research infrastructure,” they said._
This article is republished from 
=======
Story's url: https://www.fwc.gov.au/about-us/news-and-media/news/general-manager-statement-about-changes-commission

[ Back to latest news ](
Body
General Manager Murray Furlong has issued a statement about proposed and planned changes at the Commission. These changes are in response to:
  * a significant increase in workload
  * an increase in self-represented applicants
  * budget constraints
  * resourcing challenges
  * proliferation of generative AI tools.
In the statement, Murray indicates that these changes in our operating environment are having a direct impact on our ability to provide timely, efficient and effective dispute resolution services to the community. As a result, it necessary for us to review the way we work to ensure that we can operate sustainably in the years ahead.
The changes outlined in the statement will result in significant changes to our processes, systems and information. This will impact Commission Members, staff and the public. Our regular user can expect changes to the ways they interact with the Commission. 
We will continue to listen to and work closely with key stakeholders to design and implement solutions that balance their needs with operational needs and efficiency measures. 
We have established a reference group with peak bodies to provide an open and collaborative forum. This is in addition to our existing [stakeholder user groups]( "Stakeholder user groups") and communication and engagement channels. We have also published a [Change at the Commission webpage]( "Change at the Commission") outlining upcoming changes. 
Read the full General Manager Statement: [Changes to processes, systems and information (pdf)](
This statement should be read together with the:
Components
Content
Stay up-to-date with news and resources from the Commission by [subscribing to Announcements __]( "Open subscribing to Announcements in a new tab")or follow the Commission on[ Facebook __]( "Open Facebook in a new tab"),[ Instagram __]( "Open Instagram in a new tab")and[ LinkedIn __]( "Open LinkedIn in a new tab").
Date
29 May 2026
Deck
Submissions on the proposed changes are due 4 pm AEST on 4 June 2026.
[ Proposed variation to road transport contractual chain order – fuel costs  ]( "Proposed variation to road transport contractual chain order – fuel costs")
Date
28 May 2026
Deck
Watch the live stream via our website or YouTube at 10 am on Tuesday 2 June 2026
[ Annual Wage Review 2026 decision to be live streamed  ]( "Annual Wage Review 2026 decision to be live streamed")
Date
22 May 2026
Deck
This appointment follows a rigorous selection process.
[ General Manager Statement: Appointment of new CFMEU Administrator  ]( "General Manager Statement: Appointment of new CFMEU Administrator")
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
