Story's url: https://minister.agriculture.gov.au/collins/media-releases/floating-islands-prepare-act-h5-bird-flu

Search keyword
Search
11 March 2026
Senator The Hon Murray Watt, Minister for the Environment and Water  
The Hon Julie Collins MP, Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry  
Suzanne Orr MLA, ACT Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy and Water
* * *
The Albanese Government is investing $60,000 to support native birds in the Australian Capital Territory as part of preparations for a potential outbreak of H5 avian influenza (bird flu).
The funding will support the construction and deployment of innovative ‘floating island’ refuges across the Territory’s lakes, dams and wetlands.
These islands hope to provide a more secure environment for at-risk waterbirds such as the sharp-tailed sandpiper and Latham’s snipe, to rest and feed without being disturbed or preyed on by feral cats and foxes.
Healthy habitats and strong populations give native species the best chance of withstanding the potential impacts of H5 bird flu.
This project may have long lasting conservation benefits which can be applied more broadly in the ACT and Australia if successful.
The floating islands will be built on waterbodies within reserves throughout the Territory.
Minister for the Environment and Water Murray Watt said that supporting healthy populations of vulnerable species is key to building resilience against H5 bird flu.
“Unfortunately, we won’t be able to stop H5 bird flu from reaching Australia, but we can prepare by supporting populations of at-risk species.
“That’s why the Albanese Government is investing in these floating island refuges that will protect our wildlife from both predators and the virus.”
Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry Julie Collins said the Albanese Labor Government is delivering a record investment to help prepare for H5 bird flu.
“We’re investing $100 million to strengthen our surveillance, preparedness and response capability to H5 bird flu, to protect Australia’s agricultural industries and wildlife,” Minister Collins said.
“This project is part of our active work with our state and territory government counterparts to help bolster native populations.”
ACT Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy and Water Suzanne Orr MLA said the ACT is well positioned to trial the floating island refuges with over 80% of the Territory covered by natural parks, reserves and waterways. 
“The ACT is home to hundreds of species of birds, including some that are rare or threatened,” Minister Orr said.
“It’s vital that we do everything we can to mitigate the potential impacts of H5 bird flu and prepare and protect our beloved native birds as much as possible.
“With the support of the Australian Government, these floating wetland refuges are an innovative solution that could help protect our birds, and if successful they can serve as inspiration for every jurisdiction to take action and prepare for H5 bird flu.”
The Albanese Government’s broader $100 million investment to prepare for H5 bird flu includes $35.9 million for environment measures, with the following investments already underway in the ACT:   
• $100,000 to support species and site preparedness planning   
• $185,000 to enhance biosecurity to protect captive populations of the endangered eastern quoll at Mulligans Flat Woodland Sanctuary.
**Images available**
