Story's url: https://theenergy.co/article/airtrunk-stands-ready-to-flex-and-invest-in-grid

[Data Centres]( newsMay 1 2026
A senior AirTrunk energy executive has signalled that the Data Centre trailblazer stands ready to invest in network upgrades and may consider flexing up and down to prevent outages
By [Kate Burgess](
A visualisation of AirTrunk's expanded SYD3 data centre which will host a battery energy storage system - Supplied
Data centre czar AirTrunk is ready to shoulder its share of the costs to upgrade the network that will be needed to host $26 billion of giant new facilities by 2030.
Associate vice president for energy and utility Sabooh Whitelaw told  _The Energy’s_ Data Power event that her team were now open to considering how to flex their facilities’ energy consumption up and down to respond to the needs of the power networks, which could prevent price spikes and rolling outages.
“We've got a lot of capital willing to invest in whatever the system needs. How do data centres integrate the demand into the system? It’s not about whether we use energy, but it's how we integrate that energy into the system that we are in,” she said.
Whitelaw, who has a background in energy having previously worked with Transgrid’s private investment arm Lumea and Origin Energy, is among a growing number of data centre executives to speak up about the mushrooming sector’s responsibility to contribute to the economic and social resilience where they operate, rather than compromising it.
“We have a real opportunity to get this right, if we do that data centres can play a really meaningful role in enabling renewable investments, supporting even more investment, and building more resilient energy systems for the future,” she said.
“We want to underwrite good projects that fast track the energy transition and we are already 
AirTrunk and the data centre operators are fighting a rising tide of negative community sentiment against their growing omnipresence in the cityscapes of Sydney, Melbourne and other capital cities.
While the federal government is eager to capitalise on Australia’s potential to emerge as an Asia-Pacific AI hub and potentially serve as an information host for overseas-based companies, it also wants to ensure that the impact of these large consumers on power and water grids is manageable.
Data centre operators were 
More challenging to implement will be the government’s expectation that they “improve the overall security and stability of the energy grid”, because it may mean data centres will have to shed some of their load at times of peak demand when supply can’t keep up, like the nation’s three aluminium smelters already do.
The way data centres operate is largely dictated by their customers, who underwrite the facility’s build and any renewable energy used to offset their energy use, and set out in Service Level Agreements which Adam Gibson, who advises the industry through his consultancy Techvox, explains can be difficult to modify in practice.
"It is the customer, not the data centre that controls the power. Certain hyperscalers or cloud customers will try and push you in an SLA or a level agreement to not turn off ever and not shed load.
" And it's your responsibility to make sure you never have downtime. We're now seeing customer changes, where some customers use Bitcoin as an example, which can have up to three hours of downtime."
Whitelaw indicated that AirTrunk was at least open to the idea of load shedding, within the existing constraints. “I am more than happy to look at the flexibility demand response piece. We do look at the load shifting at the moment already on our data centres. I think if this is done right, we can help to make the system more efficient and resilient for everybody.”
With data centres expected to attract $26 billion of investment by 2030, their share of Australia’s electricity consumption is expected to magnify from the current 3.9TWh or 2 per cent, to 6-7 per cent to up to 13.1TWh over the same period, depending on which Australian Energy Markets Operator’s energy transition scenario you adopt - Step change or Accelerated transition.
The electricity rulemaker is keen to bolster transmission and distribution networks with new rules that prevent data centres from electing to go off-grid and using backup diesel generators at times of network instability. If data centres did this en masse, it could make the power system unstable, which occurred in 2024 at so-called “data centre alley” in Northern Virginia when [60 facilities disconnected]( from the grid due to voltage fluctuations.
The Australian Electricity Markets Commission is [accepting submissions]( on its proposed rule change to force data centres to “ride through” voltage changes until May 7, after which it will consider changing the National Electricity Laws.
[Data centres]( [Sabooh Whitelaw](
* * *
[Kate Burgess]( is The Energy’s Senior Reporter. A financial journalist and editor with experience spanning 20 years and three continents, Kate was founding APAC editor of InfraLogic, an infrastructure newswire now part of ION Analytics. Most recently Kate launched climate and energy coverage at Capital Brief, and has also held reporting roles at The Australian Financial Review, BRW, ICIS Energy and property trade titles.
* * *
[ Victorian networks claw back revenue ](
[ Subscribe to The Energy  ](
Copy URL Copy link to page Link copied!
