Story's url: https://www.bdo.com.au/en-au/insights/esg-sustainability/criteria-for-mandatory-sustainability-reporting-are-tested-each-reporting-period

Article
[Opens in a new window/tab]( "undefined \(Opens in a new window/tab\)")
* * *
Published: 22 April 2026 | 
Authors: [Aletta Boshoff]( "Aletta Boshoff")
With mandatory sustainability reporting being phased in over the next three years, the focus to date has been on whether entities preparing financial reports under Chapter 2M of the _Corporations Act 2001_[will have to prepare a sustainability report]( and if so, [when](
But what happens if things change in future? Entities may be wondering whether assessing mandatory sustainability reporting obligations is a one-time thing or a test that must be repeated each year.
**If an entity meets one of the**[**three criteria**]( mandatory sustainability reporting in a particular financial year, does it mean it will have to continue preparing sustainability reports in future?**
No. The mandatory sustainability reporting test is not a ‘set and forget’ test. It must be repeated **each financial year** in a similar fashion to the test for large proprietary company financial reporting obligations under sections 292(1)(c) and 45A(3). This is because all three criteria in section 292A for mandatory sustainability reporting are based on a ‘financial year’ or year-end test as follows:
Section 292A criteria | Details  
---|---  
Size thresholds |  The entity and its controlled entities satisfy at least two of the following three criteria:
  * Consolidated revenue _for the financial year_ of $50 million or more
  * Value of consolidated gross assets at the _end of the financial year_ of $25 million or more
  * 100 or more employees _at the end of the financial year_
_Section 292A(3)_  
National Greenhouse Energy Reporting (NGER) reporters |  Under the _National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007_ (NGER Act), the entity is either:
  * A registered corporation, or
  * Required to apply to be registered under section 12(1) Note
_Section 292A(5)_  
Asset owners |  Both the following criteria are met:
  * The entity is a registered scheme, registrable superannuation entity or retail corporate collective investment vehicle (CCIV)
  * The value of its assets at the _end of the financial year_ of the entity and the entities it controls is $5 billion or more
_Section 292A(6)_  
**Note:** Under section 12(1) of the NGER Act, a controlling corporation must register if either: 1. _During a financial year_ , the controlling corporation’s group, from the operation of facilities under the operational control of members of the group:
  * Emitted total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of 50,000 tonnes or more of CO2 equivalent, or
  * Produced energy of 200 terajoules or more, or
  * Consumed energy of 200 terajoules or more, or
2. _During a financial year_ , an entity that is a member of the controlling corporation’s group has operational control of a facility, which during the year:
  * Emitted total GHG emissions of 25,000 tonnes or more of CO2 equivalent, or
  * Produced energy of 100 terajoules or more, or
  * Consumed energy of 100 terajoules or more.
The size threshold test is assessed each year based on revenues for the financial year, and gross assets and employee numbers at the end of the year. Similarly, the asset owners test is based on the value of assets at the end of the year. The NGER test is based on emissions during a financial year.
Entity ABC is a small, listed start-up entity with a 30 June 2028 year-end.
It is required to prepare and lodge financial statements with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) because it is a disclosing entity. However, at 30 June 2028, it does not meet any of the [criteria]( for mandatory sustainability reporting.
In May 2029, Entity ABC undertakes a major business acquisition. Applying acquisition accounting in IFRS 3 _Business Combinations_ for this business combination, the Entity ABC group meets the [size thresholds]( for mandatory sustainability reporting for the year ended 30 June 2029, based on consolidated gross assets and employee numbers.
**As Entity ABC is listed at 30 June 2029, it must prepare and lodge financial statements with ASIC because it is a disclosing entity.**
**Even though it had no obligation to prepare a sustainability report for the year ended 30 June 2028, it must now prepare one for 30 June 2029. This is because, after applying acquisition accounting for the acquired entity, the group meets the**[**size thresholds**]( section 292A(3).**
Directors should be aware that the entity’s sustainability reporting obligations may be triggered as a result of business acquisitions, and that completing acquisitions near year-end may put a strain on already-stretched finance resources. ASIC has laid out its expectations regarding [directors’ duties]( with respect to sustainability reporting and maintaining [sustainability records]( There are no exemptions from preparing a sustainability report simply because the completion date is close to year-end. Entities would need to apply to ASIC for [specific relief]( which may not necessarily be granted.
Bearing in mind that Entity ABC’s acquisition only occurred in May 2029, and that Entity ABC is a listed entity, it must prepare and lodge its first mandatory sustainability report by no later than 30 September 2029 (four to five months after completing the acquisition). If Entity ABC has no systems and processes in place regarding sustainability governance, strategy, risk management and measuring its greenhouse gas emissions, it may not be prepared for this task.
Assuming the acquired entity is an Australian entity, and therefore, has prepared a sustainability report for the year ended 30 June 2028, there should be systems and processes in place to cover its own sustainability reporting obligations. However, Entity ABC must prepare a sustainability report for the whole group, and will need to overlay the acquiree’s systems and processes with those of its own (which may need to be developed from scratch).
A worst-case scenario is that the acquired entity is not an Australian entity, and that there are no systems and processes in place for the whole group. Calculating your greenhouse gas emissions at such short notice could be a mammoth task.
Entity DEF is a listed entity with a 30 June 2027 year-end.
It meets the threshold for [Group 2]( sustainability reporting because it is an [NGER reporter]( and prepares its first mandatory sustainability report for 30 June 2027.
In October 2027, Entity DEF closes its main manufacturing facility because it now outsources all of the production to China. It deregisters and is no longer an [NGER reporter]( at 30 June 2028. While revenues will exceed $50 million for the 30 June 2028 year, assets and employees will not meet the [size threshold]( for mandatory sustainability reporting, i.e. $25 million and 100 employees.
Entity DEF remains listed at 30 June 2028.
**As Entity DEF is listed at 30 June 2028, it must prepare and lodge financial statements with ASIC because it is a disclosing entity. However, as it is no longer an**[NGER reporter]( and **does not meet the**[**size thresholds**]( section 292A(3), it is not required to prepare a sustainability report for the year ended 30 June 2028.**
It is important to note that in order to no longer have to report under the NGER Act (and therefore, no longer meet the threshold for sustainability reporting as an [NGER reporter]( entities that drop below NGER reporting thresholds must deregister from NGER.
Entity XYZ is a large proprietary company with a 30 June 2026 year-end. It is controlled by Foreign Company Limited, which has no other operations in Australia.
Entity XYZ meets the [Group 1]( sustainability reporting threshold and prepares its first mandatory sustainability report for the year ended 30 June 2026.
In October 2026, Entity XYZ undergoes a restructuring, with the majority of its operations moved offshore.
At 30 June 2027, Entity XYZ is considered a small foreign-controlled proprietary company. It is, therefore, no longer required to prepare and lodge financial statements with ASIC because it applies the relief in _ASIC Corporations (Foreign-Controlled Company Reports) Instrument 2017/204_(i.e. Entity XYZ is not part of a large Australian group).
**Entity XYZ does not prepare a sustainability report for the year ended 30 June 2027 because**[**it is not required to lodge financial statements with ASIC under Chapter 2M**](
If you need help with any aspect of your sustainability reporting, from understanding your obligations, to assistance with your governance and risk frameworks and calculating your greenhouse gas emissions, please contact our [sustainability reporting experts]( now.
[Aletta Boshoff](
Leader, IFRS & Corporate Reporting  
Leader, Sustainability Reporting  
Partner, Advisory
