<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.apra.gov.au/news-and-publications/apra-maintains-current-macroprudential-policy-settings-highly-uncertain

Media Releases 
Thursday 28 May 2026
[Print](
The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) will keep its macroprudential policy settings steady following its latest review of domestic and international financial conditions and risks.
APRA’s macroprudential policy tools are aimed at mitigating financial stability risks at a system-wide level to promote a safe and stable financial system that enables households and businesses to confidently borrow, save and invest for the future.
APRA has today confirmed that:
  * the mortgage serviceability buffer will remain at 3 percentage points;
  * the countercyclical capital buffer will remain at 1 per cent of risk-weighted assets; and,
  * high debt-to-income (DTI) lending limits remain unchanged, allowing banks to lend up to 20 per cent of new owner-occupied and investment loans at DTI greater than or equal to six times.
In deciding to keep its settings steady, APRA considered the high degree of uncertainty in the operating environment and the impact that the shift in the economic outlook is having on risks to financial stability.
In particular, APRA noted:
  * households remain highly indebted. Housing credit growth for the March quarter was strong for investors and around average for owner-occupiers. However, there are signs of moderation in housing price and credit growth. Business credit growth remains above its historical average;
  * pressure on household and business cashflows have increased due to higher inflation and interest rates but non-performing loans remain low. Strong buffers mean that most households and businesses are well placed to weather these pressures. The serviceability buffer helps ensure that recent new borrowers can continue to service their loans in the face of higher expenses and interest rates;
  * higher risk forms of mortgage lending are contained and lending standards are sound. Based on preliminary March quarter data, high DTI lending remains well below APRA’s DTI limits and so the limits are not restricting overall bank lending. However, this type of riskier lending had been increasing over the past year and – given the uncertainty in the outlook – it is prudent for the limits to remain in place as guardrails for now; and
  * the banking system remains well-capitalised and resilient and is well-positioned to absorb shocks should economic conditions deteriorate significantly.
APRA Chair John Lonsdale said that while existing settings remain appropriate for now, the risk landscape is volatile and could evolve rapidly.
“Since APRA’s last update, there has been a shift in the macroeconomic outlook. Interest rates have increased over recent months amid elevated inflation. The conflict in the Middle East is impacting economic and financial conditions in Australia, as higher oil prices add to cost pressures for households and businesses.
“Consumer sentiment and business confidence have weakened and downside risks to economic growth are heightened. Depending on global developments, these impacts could either ease or become more severe in the period ahead.
“At this stage, arrears and non-performing loans remain low and there is no evidence that the banking system is restricting credit supply to preserve capital positions in response to greater anticipated credit losses.
“APRA’s [System Risk Outlook]( "System Risk Outlook - May 2026"), released last week, highlighted that Australia’s financial system is resilient and well-positioned to support our economy in a potential downturn. APRA will remain alert for any early signs of risks materialising that could negatively impact financial stability and will adjust macroprudential settings if needed,” Mr Lonsdale said.
> ### Media enquiries
> Contact APRA Media Unit, on 
> ### All other enquiries
> For more information contact APRA on 
The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) is the prudential regulator of the financial services industry. It oversees banks, mutuals, general insurance and reinsurance companies, life insurance, private health insurers, friendly societies, and most members of the superannuation industry. APRA currently supervises institutions holding $9.8 trillion in assets for Australian depositors, policyholders and superannuation fund members. 
To receive media releases, publications, speeches and other industry-related information by email 
[Subscribe](
=======
Story's url: https://www.ato.gov.au/businesses-and-organisations/preparing-lodging-and-paying/record-keeping-for-business/overview-of-record-keeping-rules-for-business

Overview about business record-keeping requirements so you meet your tax, superannuation and registration obligations.
**Last updated** 27 May 2026
Print or Download
**Media:** Record keeping to help your business thrive  
< Link]( (**Duration:** 1:42)
You are legally required to keep records of all transactions relating to your tax, superannuation and registration affairs as you start, run, sell, change or close your business. This includes:
  * any documents related to your business's income and expenses
  * any documents containing details of any election, choice, estimate, determination or calculation you make for your business's tax and super affairs, including how (basis or method) the estimate, determination or calculation was made.
To meet your record-keeping requirements and avoid common errors, ensure you understand what records are needed for your business and make accurate and complete record-keeping practices a part of your daily business activities. As your business changes or grows, you may need to review what records you need to keep.
There can be legal and financial consequences if your business doesn't comply with these record-keeping requirements.
If you aren't sure how this information applies to your situation, ask your registered tax or BAS agent, or [contact us]( for help. We will help you get back on track if you make an error.
A record explains the tax and super-related transactions conducted by your business.
Your business records need to contain enough information for us to determine the essential features or purpose of the transactions, so we can understand the relevance of the transactions to your business's income and expenses.
The minimum information that needs to be on a record is generally the:
  * date, amount, and description (for example, sale, purchase, wages, rental) and the relevant goods and services tax (GST) information for the transaction
  * purpose of transaction
  * relationships between parties to the transactions, if relevant.
These 5 record-keeping rules apply to most records your business is required to keep to meet your tax, super and registration obligations. These are based on law and [ATO view](
  1. You need to keep all records related to starting, running, changing, and selling or closing your business that are relevant to your tax and super affairs. 
     * If your expenses relate to business use and personal use, make sure you have clear documents to show the business portion.
  2. The relevant information in your records must not be changed (for example, by using [electronic sales suppression tools]( and must be stored in a way that protects the information from being changed or the record from being damaged. 
     * We may ask you to show us you have appropriate safeguards in place.
     * You need to be able to reconstruct your original data if your record-keeping system changes over time.
  3. You need to keep most records for 5 years. 
     * Generally, the 5-year retention period for each record starts from when you prepared or obtained the record or completed the transactions or acts those records relate to, whichever is later. However, in some situations, the law states that the start of the 5-year retention period is different. For example: 
       * records for [super contributions for employees]( the 5 years starts from the date of the contribution
       * records for [super fund choice for your employees]( the 5 years starts from the date of employee engagement or when an employee is offered, chooses or changes their choice of fund.
     * There are also situations where you need to [keep some records for longer than 5 years]( including covering the period of review for an assessment that uses information from that record.
     * You need to keep all information about any routine procedures you have for destroying digital records.
  4. You need to be able to show us your records if we ask for them. 
     * Make sure you keep information about your record-keeping system so we can check that it meets the record-keeping requirements.
     * Make sure that the information on the record includes the relevant details to meet your tax, super and employer obligations.
     * If you store your data and records digitally 
       * using an encryption system – provide encryption keys and information about how to access the data when asked. You also need to ensure we can extract and convert your data into a standard data format (for example, Excel or CSV).
       * using passwords to protect your records – provide information about how to access them
       * ensure your data and records are identifiable, labelled or indexed as you store it. We may need to extract it and use an indexing or text-search system to look at it.
  5. Your records must be in English or able to be easily converted to English.
  6. We recommend you also check your record-keeping requirements with all organisations you deal with. For example, the Australian Securities & Investments Commission (ASIC) requires companies to keep records for 7 years.
For more information, see:
When we see businesses doing well, one reason is that they have accurate and complete records.
Accurate and complete records allow you to:
  * more easily meet your tax, super and employer obligations, including preparing and lodging your returns, BAS, and taxable payments annual report (if you are a business that is required to)
  * monitor your cash flow to help you to make payments on time
  * keep track of money you owe and money owed to you
  * monitor the health of your business and know whether your business is running at a profit or loss
  * make sound business decisions
  * demonstrate your financial position to lenders, businesses, tax professionals and prospective buyers
  * avoid penalties which may apply for failing to keep records
  * provide the information we need if we audit your business, making the process easier and shorter.
Use our [Record keeping evaluation tool]( to help you assess how well you are keeping your business records.
Information for businesses about the records you need to keep for longer than the general 5-year retention period.
Learn who is accountable for keeping business records, and what to expect if you do not meet record-keeping obligations.
QC60718
Print or Download
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
