<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.apra.gov.au/news-and-publications/apra-formalises-three-tiered-approach-to-proportionality-banking-prudential

Media Releases 
Wednesday 27 May 2026
[Print](
The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) has confirmed plans to formally introduce a three-tiered approach to proportionality in its prudential framework for banking.
The measure is one of a number of reforms APRA moved to introduce as part of its response to the [Council of Financial Regulators’ Review into Small and Medium-Sized Banks]( The CFR review was undertaken in consultation with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC). It also aligns with APRA’s strategic commitment to get the balance right between its primary mandate for financial safety and stability and other considerations such as competition and efficiency. 
Following a [consultation that closed earlier this year]( APRA today wrote to banks confirming it will proceed with the following proposals aimed at embedding additional proportionality and driving competition in the industry:
  * Introducing a third tier of Most Significant Financial Institutions (MSFIs) for banks with total assets greater than $300 billion
  * Raising the asset value threshold for banks to qualify as a Significant Financial Institution (SFI) from $20 billion to $30 billion; and
  * Automatically providing a 12-month transition period when a regulated institution moves to a higher tier.
APRA also commits to providing non-SFIs with additional time to comply with new and revised prudential requirements when it is appropriate to do so.
APRA Executive Board Member, Therese McCarthy Hockey said: “Today’s changes reflect APRA’s ongoing commitment to building further proportionality into the banking framework and our supervision practices.
“This proportionality will only deepen over time as we look for more opportunities for greater differentiation between each of the banking tiers with each new piece of policy development.”
The changes take effect from 1 July 2026.
The letter formally responding to submissions to the consultation is available on the APRA website at: [Formalising a three-tiered approach to proportionality in banking prudential framework]( "Formalising a three-tiered approach to proportionality in banking prudential framework")
> ### Media enquiries
> Contact APRA Media Unit, on 
> ### All other enquiries
> For more information contact APRA on 
The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) is the prudential regulator of the financial services industry. It oversees banks, mutuals, general insurance and reinsurance companies, life insurance, private health insurers, friendly societies, and most members of the superannuation industry. APRA currently supervises institutions holding $9.8 trillion in assets for Australian depositors, policyholders and superannuation fund members. 
To receive media releases, publications, speeches and other industry-related information by email 
[Subscribe](
=======
Story's url: https://www.ato.gov.au/businesses-and-organisations/income-deductions-and-concessions/depreciation-and-capital-expenses-and-allowances/simpler-depreciation-for-small-business/instant-asset-write-off

Instant asset write-off is a component of the simplified depreciation rules, which also include the small business pool.
**Last updated** 27 May 2026
Print or Download
Eligible businesses can claim an immediate deduction for the business portion of the cost of an asset in the year the asset is first used or installed ready for use.
The instant asset write-off can be used for:
  * multiple assets, if the cost of each individual asset is less than the relevant limit
  * new and second-hand assets.
If you are a small business, you need to apply the [simplified depreciation rules]( to claim the instant asset write off. It can't be used for [assets that are excluded]( from those rules.
A small business that has claimed an immediate deduction for an asset under the simplified depreciation rules in a prior income year can also immediately deduct an amount included in the [second element]( (cost addition) of that asset's cost, where the amount is both:
  * the first deductible amount of the second element cost incurred after the end of the income year in which the asset was written off
  * less than the relevant limit amount for the income year it is being claimed.
Jack is a sole trader with an aggregated turnover of less than $10 million who uses the simplified depreciation rules. He purchases an excavator for $220,000 for his business and first uses it on 20 January 2023. He claims the cost of the excavator under temporary full expensing in the _Business and professional items schedule_ of his 2022–23 income tax return.
On 15 August 2025, Jack purchases and instals ready for use, a new bucket for his excavator at a cost of $19,000. He does not have any previous cost additions for the excavator. The bucket is the first addition to the second element of cost for the asset which Jack had written off in an earlier income year. This means he is able to claim a deduction for its full cost in the _Business and professional items schedule_ of his 2025–26 income tax return, as it is under the relevant instant asset write-off [limit]( of $20,000.
Jack also purchases a new MIG welder for $4,500 which is delivered ready for use on 12 March 2026. As the cost of the MIG welder is under the relevant instant asset write-off limit and he only uses it for his business, he can immediately deduct its full cost in the _Business and professional items schedule_ of his 2025–26 income tax return.
End of example
The instant asset write-off eligibility criteria and limit have changed over time. You need to:
  * check your business's eligibility against the [eligibility conditions]( below
  * apply the relevant [limit]( amount.
The income year in which you may claim an instant asset write-off depends on when the asset was purchased and first used or installed ready for use.
Eligibility, and the year in which you may use the instant asset write-off to claim an immediate deduction for an asset depends on:
  * your aggregated turnover – this is the [annual turnover]( of your business and that of any business entities that are your affiliates or connected with you
  * the date you purchased the asset
  * when it was first used or installed ready for use
  * the cost of the asset being less than the limit.
The instant asset write-off limits have changed over recent years. Make sure you have checked the [eligibility criteria]( for your business.  
Table 1: Instant asset write-off limits for businesses with an aggregated turnover less than $10 million that apply the simplified depreciation rules  
|  Date range for when asset first used or installed ready for use  |  Limit  |  
| --- | --- |  
|  1 July 2023 to 30 June 2026  |  $20,000  |  
|  12 March 2020 to 30 June 2021, providing the asset was purchased on or after 7:30 pm (AEST) on 12 May 2015 and by 31 December 2020 (see [note](  |  $150,000  |  
|  On or after 7:30 pm (AEDT) on 2 April 2019 to 11 March 2020  |  $30,000  |  
|  29 January 2019 to before 7:30 pm (AEDT) on 2 April 2019  |  $25,000  |  
|  1 July 2016 to 28 January 2019  |  $20,000  |  
**Note:** For the 2020–21, 2021–22 and 2022–23 income years, [temporary full expensing]( may be available.  
Table 2: Instant asset write-off limits for businesses with an aggregated turnover of $10 million or more  
|  Aggregated turnover  |  Date range for when asset first used or installed ready for use  |  Limit  |  
| --- | --- | --- |  
|  Less than $50 million  |  On or after 7:30 pm (AEDT) on 2 April 2019 to 11 March 2020  |  $30,000  |  
|  Less than $500 million  |  12 March 2020 to 30 June 2021 providing the asset was purchased on or after 7:30 pm (AEST) on 2 April 2019 and by 31 December 2020  |  $150,000  |  
If you use the simplified depreciation rules and the cost of an asset is the same as or more than the relevant instant asset write-off limit, the asset must be placed in the [small business pool](
Daryl owns a small electrical business, Daryl’s Electrical, which has an aggregated turnover of less than $10 million. On 28 July 2025, Daryl purchases a ute for $40,000. He estimates he will use the ute 40% of the time for his business.
Even though the cost of the ute to the business is $16,000 ($40,000 × 40%), Daryl can't use the instant asset write-off as the total cost of the ute ($40,000) exceeds the relevant limit of $20,000.
Instead, Daryl can add the $16,000 business portion of the ute's cost to the small business pool for Daryl’s Electrical.
End of example
If you are a small business, you must use the [simplified depreciation rules]( to claim the instant asset write-off.
A car limit applies to the cost of certain passenger vehicles.
There are also a small number of [assets that are excluded](
The [car limit]( **does not** apply to:
  * vehicles that are **not** considered a passenger vehicle
  * vehicles modified for use by people with disability.
If the car limit does not apply to your vehicle, use the vehicle's cost to work out your depreciation deductions.
The car limit **does** apply to the cost of passenger vehicles (except a motorcycle or similar vehicle) that are designed to carry fewer than 9 passengers and a load less than one tonne.
The **one-tonne capacity** is the maximum load your vehicle can carry. This is also known as the payload capacity.
The **payload capacity** is the gross vehicle mass (GVM), as specified on the compliance plate by the manufacturer, reduced by the basic kerb weight of the vehicle.
The **basic kerb weight** is the weight of the vehicle with a full tank of fuel, oil and coolant, together with the spare wheel, tools (including jack) and factory-installed options. It doesn't include the weight of passengers, goods or accessories.
Payload capacity = GVM – basic kerb weight
If the car limit applies to your car, the car limit is the maximum cost you can use to calculate the car's decline in value. You can't claim the excess cost over the car limit under any other depreciation rules.
Asha and Raj own and run a small irrigation supplies business in partnership and use the simplified depreciation rules. On 15 June 2025, they (as partners) purchase a car for $80,000 (including GST) that is designed to carry fewer than 9 passengers and has a load less than one tonne. The car is delivered and ready for business use on 5 December 2025. The car is used 75% of the time for business purposes.
The car limit for the 2025–26 income year is $69,674. As such, the maximum amount the partnership can claim for depreciation is $52,255 (75% of $69,674). The amount cannot be claimed under instant asset write-off, because the cost of the vehicle ($80,000) is greater than the $20,000 Instant asset write-off limit for the 2025–26 income year. Instead, they add $52,255 to their small business pool, where it depreciates at 15% in the first year and 30% for each subsequent year.
The balance of cost of the car ($27,745) cannot be claimed under any other depreciation rules.
End of example
If your business is registered for GST and can claim a full GST credit on the purchase of an asset, you exclude the GST amount paid when calculating the asset's cost for depreciation purposes.
If you can only claim a portion of the GST credit, then the asset's cost is reduced by the portion you can claim.
Where the car limit applies to reduce a car's cost, there are special rules about the amount of GST credit that can be claimed.
For example, if a business is registered for GST and purchases a car for $75,000 including GST, the maximum GST credit that can be claimed on the purchase is one-eleventh of the car limit. For the 2025–26 income year this is $69,674 ÷ 11 = $6,334. After excluding this GST amount, from the asset's cost ($75,000 − $6,334 = $68,666) is:
  * less than the car limit of $69,674
  * greater than the $20,000 Instant asset write off limit for the 2025–26 income year.
In this case, $68,666 is added to the business's small business pool, where it depreciates at 15% for the 2025–26 income year and 30% for each subsequent year.
If your business is not registered for GST, you include the GST amount you paid on the asset in the asset's cost. For example, if a business is not registered for GST and purchased a car costing $75,000 including GST, the maximum amount that can be added to their small business pool is the car limit ($69,674 in 2025–26).
For more information about GST and cars, see [Purchasing a motor vehicle](
To be eligible for the instant asset write-off, an asset's full cost must be less than the relevant limit. In the case of trade ins, work out the full cost using the asset's purchase price before any trade-in credit is applied.
To work out the amount you can claim for any asset's cost, you must subtract any private use portion. The balance (that is the portion you use to earn assessable income) is generally the **taxable purpose portion** (business purpose portion).
While you can only claim the taxable purpose portion as a deduction, the **entire cost of the asset must be less than the relevant limit**.
On 18 November 2025, Fiona buys a new computer for $6,800 that she uses 80% of the time for her business as a sole trader. She also buys a new printer for $700 that she uses only for business purposes.
For the computer, Fiona calculates the business use portion that she can claim a deduction for under the instant asset write-off as $5,440 (80% of $6,800). For the printer, she can claim the entire cost of $700.
Fiona claims the combined amount of $6,140 in the _Business and professional items schedule_ of her 2025-26 income tax return.
End of example
To work out the notional deduction for an asset's decline in value under the research and development tax offset ([R&D tax offset]( rules, you must subtract any non-R&D use of the asset, including the taxable purpose portion and private use portion.
If you are a small business and you have used an asset for R&D activities, you cannot use the simplified depreciation rules for that asset (including instant-asset write off) and the general depreciation rules will apply.
For more information, see:
QC61417
Print or Download
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
