Story's url: https://theenergy.co/article/how-to-deliver-climate-policy-that-lasts

[Climate]( [Policy]( contextApr 28 2026
More than a decade on from the Paris Agreement, climate action and the economy should be seen as two sides of the same coin. To succeed with the energy transition, we need policy that works for everyone
By [Thom Woodroofe](
A decade on from the International Paris Agreement, support for climate action is waning - hajue staudt | Wikimedia
Even in the face of the latest fossil fuels crisis, Australia is yet to fully embrace the transformation required across our energy system and trade export balance-sheet if we are to continue to thrive as a nation in the new climate reality.
The importance of this transition still does not consistently resonate as an urgent, top-tier political priority with many Australians.
This is especially true in middle Australia, and particularly in the face of other pressures — not least the rolling cost-of-living crisis that now confronts us, first sparked by COVID, worsened by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and fuelled now by the events surrounding the Strait of Hormuz.
The ABC’s 
Around a quarter of respondents across all demographics (age, gender, education and stated voting intention) identified cost of living as their main concern, supplanting climate action from the top position just three years earlier — when, it is important to remember, Australia was still recovering from the worst of the COVID pandemic, including historically high levels of unemployment.
What it shows is that to many, climate action and the cost of living are not always seen as interlinked — sometimes the political context brings them into alignment, but often they are considered separate issues. As a result Australia could still be just one election away from a complete unwinding of our progress on climate to date.
This is particularly surprising when you consider that economists, market operators and scientists alike all accept that decarbonising our energy system with renewables is our most cost-effective long-term solution to high electricity prices. Yes, the cost of electricity has never been higher, and it continues to rise, despite the Australian Government’s recent subsidies for households in the form of the Energy Bill Relief Fund. But wind and solar, backed by battery storage, remain the cheapest forms of electricity that can be generated in Australia, as the CSIRO’s latest 
So why is this message not resonating with many Australians, who blame the transition to renewables for these price increases?
Meanwhile, Australia is one of the world’s largest energy exporters, with coal and LNG among our largest sources of economic prosperity as a nation.
Australia is the second-largest exporter of coal and often the second-largest exporter of LNG (in fact, September 2025 saw Australia reach its highest-ever volume of thermal coal exports, and the recent Middle East tensions have only increased Australia’s share of global LNG exports). Yet it’s clear that fossil fuels will have an expiration date in global markets, even if we might quibble about their medium-term prospects. Therefore, Australia has an economic imperative to develop green exports in parallel.
So why do many Australians still feel wary about transitioning away from our fossil fuel wealth-based economy with green export opportunities, including via our largest export commodity of iron ore in the form of green iron, or ideally green steel?
And while most Australians accept the link between climate change and increasingly devastating bushfires, droughts, floods and cyclones, some still do not see how we can enhance our national resilience, or understand why international leadership on climate is a crucial element of our response. Perhaps because Australians still think of our nation as “a land of droughts and flooding rains”, despite the planetary emergency that now confronts us. How do we change this dynamic?
Our next wave of climate and energy policymaking needs to continue to be fixed on middle Australia because the moral imperative to address climate is not enough to galvanise everyone. Good climate and energy policy should cost people less each month, not more.
Good policy should help the increasing proportion of the country that rents to also embrace renewables and reduce their energy bills, as opposed to simply those who own housing (the increasingly out-of-reach ‘Australian dream’).
It should make the replacement for the family car a debate about what is cheaper, not a culture war.
It should show that there can be upwards, or at the very least sidewards, economic mobility during the transition, not downward mobility, as many workers fear.
It should breathe new life and confidence into our regional towns and industrial centres, rather than just being there for the bailout.
It should shorten commutes for those who live in the mortgage belts, not lengthen them.
I have come to believe that it is only through demonstrating these things we can finally convince all of the Australian population of the benefits of being an international leader on climate change, and that ambitious emissions targets, renewable energy and green exports will help to create a more stable and prosperous nation for us and our children. While we have made good progress in recent years, we have a long way yet to go.
_This is an extract from Power, Prosperity & Planet: Climate & Energy Policy for All by Thom Woodroofe, published by Monash University Publishing as part of the In The National Interest series, available from 27 April._
[Carbon emissions]( [Climate change]( [Coal]( [Decarbonisation]( [Fossil fuel exports]( [Green iron]( [Green steel]( [Politics]( [Stopping the energy wars](
* * *
[Thom Woodroofe]( is a Senior International Fellow with the Smart Energy Council and a former climate diplomat.
* * *
[ Origin sees hit to LNG revenue ](
[ Subscribe to The Energy  ](
Copy URL Copy link to page Link copied!
