Story's url: https://theenergy.co/article/firming-the-grid-how-to-step-on-the-gas

[Projects]( featureApr 27 2026
More gas-fired power plants are needed to firm the grid when batteries can't but generators say they're not viable without government help
By [Kate Burgess](
In early April, EnergyAustralia quietly submitted an updated federal environmental referral for its proposed Marulan gas-fired power station.
Planned for a site on the Hume Highway between Moss Vale and Goulburn, Marulan has been in the gentailer’s pipeline since 2006 but the project only got moving again last September when it gained major project approval status from the New South Wales government.
EA is planning to double the plant’s original capacity to 1.43GW and build an open cycle gas turbine instead of a series of combined cycle units, to allow the plant to switch on and off faster so it can step in to provide capacity on cloudy, still days when solar generation is low, which typically occurs in the winter months.
It’s still early days for the project, and a final investment decision will not be taken until EA has planning approvals in place, completed engineering studies and has modelled whether the plant’s expected use in the National Electricity Market can justify the project's cost.
But there are a couple of hitches. One is that the transmission network in greater Sydney and the southern highlands is highly congested, because transmission capacity is insufficient for the amount of electricity that transits the poles and wires.
Transgrid is planning a $1.6 billion upgrade known as the Sydney Ring South to boost network capacity in the area. But it can’t come soon enough - the network’s most recent planning report lists the first stage's expected completion date in 2030.
EA trading and transmissions executive Daniel Nugent tells  _The Energy_ that Marulan cannot be developed without Sydney Ring South. “ Being able to fast track that Sydney ring project is going to be absolutely critical to the Marulan economics and viability.”
The longer EA waits for the network to be augmented, the more expensive the gas turbines will be when the gentailer signs an OEM contract with a supplier. Due to global demand for gas-fired power, wait times on turbines can be as long as five years, according to Nugent.
The cost per watt - a widely-used measure to estimate capital expenditure - has already jumped from $1 to $2.50 since EA built the Tallawarra B gas unit in 2024, according to Rystad analysis which Nugent also stands by.
Sydney Ring South is a multi-stage project - the first stage involves tweaking existing transmission lines to improve power flows, while the second is a proposed new 500kV transmission augmentation line. The power flow control stage has been included in the Australian Energy Market Operator’s (AEMO’s) 2026 Draft ISP, with an estimated 2030 completion date, but the ISP says the new line is not needed until at least 2037.
Transgrid will shortly lodge an application with the Australian Energy Regulator to go ahead with Sydney Ring South, but does not yet have approval to seek funding for the project, according to a spokesperson.
**Backup plan**
The Australian Energy Market Operator’s most recent figures for the amount of new gas generation the NEM requires to partly replace outgoing coal and to firm renewables by 2050 stands at 14GW.
Nugent is expecting renewables and batteries to play the predominant role in the grid - especially during the summer months when batteries are increasingly stepping in to discharge during the evening peak when the sun sets and demand steps up - and says that the role of gas has changed immeasurably.
“As we go deeper into renewable penetration, what we are going to find is that we really need these gas plants to run - not for significant amounts of time - but they play an incredibly important role when they do,” he says.
“The role of these gas plants is really a backup, for when there are low renewables in the system. On a daily basis, we think the primary source of energy is going to be renewables, and we're gonna have storage that will manage those evening peaks when the sun goes down and there's less wind in the system, particularly during winter when wind speeds are low.
“The most important aspect is being able to start as quickly as possible, and be able to run when the market requires it,” Nugent says.
This new role as provider of last resort has shifted the economics of gas-fired power, Nugent adds.
“You're not looking at how often it's necessarily going to be switched on and running,” he explains, adding that gas generators used to earn money for the amount of times they switched on multiplied by the prevailing price, whereas now they earn money through cap contracts.
These are a type of hedge that retailers use to protect against high prices. Generators are the counterparty to the cap - while retailers pay an agreed strike price, generators receive a payment if the electricity spot price is higher than the strike price.
“Gas plants are turning on to defend a cap,” Nugent explains, because the generation acts as a physical hedge against the financial instrument. “And so it's the value of the cap that is so critical to the economics of these new gas plants. They account for 90 per cent of their revenue.”
Rystad analyst David Dixon recently assessed whether any new gas plant built in the NEM today could achieve a 12 per cent IRR if built today. He assessed OCGT, CCGT and another technology known as a reciprocating engine, and took into account capex, annual fixed and variable operating costs, capacity factors, heat rates and assumed a 25-year economic life.
His analysis showed that for each technology type, no matter what the gas price - which he assumed to be $8-11/gigajoule “no project earned an equity IRR of 12 per cent, which we deemed a reasonable threshold to be economic.”
The profitability of gas plants depends on the difference between prevailing electricity prices and gas prices - known colloquially as the “spark spread”, as Nugent explains. “Back when gas was $4 or $5 and you had a heat rate of 11 or so, that equates to a $55 or $60/MWh short run marginal cost. If electricity prices were at say $150/MWh, there is a reasonable margin for the gas plant.
“But when you're talking about a gas price well over $10/GJ, that equates to a $150/MWh short run marginal cost,” he adds.
Rystad's analysis concludes that substantial government subsidies would be required to deliver the price signal needed to build a new gas plant. “We estimate that about 40 per cent of the project capex will require an upfront subsidy or equivalent support to reach financial close,” he says. “Another potential solution is to enable gas projects to compete in the federal Capacity Investment Scheme (CIS) to support revenues and improve bankability,” he adds.
Around two-thirds of gas capacity in the NEM is owned by SnowyHydro, and the gentailers EA, Origin Energy and AGL. When  _The Energy_ asked Origin Energy why it hadn’t invested in a new gas plant for 14 years, executive general manager for supply and operations, Greg Jarvis agreed that their changed role in the NEM had altered their project economics.
“If the market doesn’t provide predictable investment signals, it becomes increasingly difficult to attract the investment needed,” he says.
“This highlights the importance of policy settings, including capacity-style mechanisms such as those contemplated in the NEM Review, evolving to support timely investment in firming and dispatchable capacity.”
Iberdrola Australia CEO and Griffith University professor Paul Simshauser discovered a reduced correlation between electricity and gas prices by looking at spark spreads in a 
“Gas has lost a third of its superpower, hasn't it?" he says.
" One of the big problems at the moment there's a pattern of coal plant extensions, that [owners] schedule for closure and then that changes. Ordinarily that creates a perfect platform for the new generation coming, but this is no longer the case.”
Simshauser is advocating for the creation of a strategic reserve of gas plants by providing an incentive for their construction. “You run a quick auction and say ‘we need 500MW of gas turbines to be installed.'
“This would give the government confidence that in the post-exit environment, after the coal plant's closed, the house isn't going to fall down on it. You've actually got the right shock absorbers ready to deal with that exit environment.
“You could use any weapon you want from a financial perspective to get them over the line, whatever it takes for investors to get confident,” he concludes.
Simshauser and Nugent agree that the Electricity Service Entry Mechanism contracts being developed as part of last year’s Nelson review might do the job, if gas generators are able to use them.
“The main thing is that you need the physical capacity there somehow. My advice to government would be, do not subsidise the fuel. It’s underwriting the construction of the plant. You wouldn't want to be subsidising their production running or anything like that.
“ These are insurance assets, just to help ensure portfolios are able to deal with those tough evening periods or when there are major contingent events around the power system. They’re really there as your spare tyre.”
While EA moves ahead with Marulan, it is also hedging its bets with another gas peaker project to be developed on the site of the Yallourn coal power station in Victoria when it closes in mid-2028. Nugent says it will decide which plant to deliver first based on how the Marulan development proceeds and the relative market dynamics in each state closer to the time.
[Electricity Services Entry Mechanism]( [NEM]( [Paul Simshauser]( [Daniel Nugent]( [David Dixon]( [EnergyAustralia](
* * *
[Kate Burgess]( is The Energy’s Senior Reporter. A financial journalist and editor with experience spanning 20 years and three continents, Kate was founding APAC editor of InfraLogic, an infrastructure newswire now part of ION Analytics. Most recently Kate launched climate and energy coverage at Capital Brief, and has also held reporting roles at The Australian Financial Review, BRW, ICIS Energy and property trade titles.
* * *
[ Why network tariff reform hasn't happened already ](
[ Subscribe to The Energy  ](
Copy URL Copy link to page Link copied!
