Story's url: https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook%20Labor%20Government/BHP-to-help-deliver-quality-services,-infrastructure-in-Port-Hedland-20260604

The Cook Labor Government has welcomed BHP's $160 million investment in community facilities in Port Hedland through the Resources Community Investment Initiative (RCII), supporting delivery of the government's Seven Cities vision for regional Western Australia. 
  * Cook Labor Government welcomes $160 million investment by BHP in Port Hedland
  * Investment supports government's Seven Cities vision with funding for Hedland Senior High School, new aquatic centre and service worker accommodation in South Hedland
  * Port Hedland one of Seven Cities critical to the government's economic vision for WA
The Cook Labor Government has welcomed BHP's $160 million investment in community facilities in Port Hedland through the Resources Community Investment Initiative (RCII), supporting delivery of the government's Seven Cities vision for regional Western Australia.
As one of the regional hubs identified as part of the government's recently announced Seven Cities vision, Port Hedland will play a critical role in unlocking the next wave of regional economic development throughout the State, with the government to invest in the quality services and infrastructure needed to support that growth.
To support that vision and make Port Hedland an even better place to live, work and raise a family, BHP has invested $80 million through the RCII in upgrades at Hedland Senior High School so the school can continue providing a quality education to students in the region.
The redevelopment will include new design and technology facilities for students to build practical, hands-on skills and explore career pathways in industries that will continue to drive WA's economy.
The full scope of the upgrades will be developed together with Hedland Senior High School.
BHP will also contribute $20 million towards a new aquatic centre in South Hedland.
The Cook Labor Government has already committed $22.5 million towards that project, which is due to commence construction in 2028.
Additionally, BHP will also allocate $10 million for the Town of Port Hedland's proposed new service worker accommodation in South Hedland, with 56 apartment-style dwellings for essential service workers.
This supports the construction of 195 Government Regional Officer Housing (GROH) homes in Port Hedland as part of the State's biggest-ever GROH build announced through the 2026-27 State Budget.
BHP, alongside Rio Tinto and Hancock, are partnering with government to deliver these new builds, with BHP contributing $50 million.
Launched in November 2022, the RCII is a collaboration between the government and WA's world-leading resources sector which allows companies like BHP to make financial contributions towards iconic infrastructure projects and community and social initiatives.
To find out more, head to: [
**Comments attributed to Premier Roger Cook:**
"I want to thank BHP for their contribution to these projects, which will make Port Hedland an even better place to live, work and raise a family and help realise my government's Seven Cities vision.
"I want Western Australia's economy to remain the strongest in the nation.
"That's why it's so important for us to continue investing in the Pilbara, our State's economic powerhouse.
"Through the Resource Community Investment Initiative, my government is leveraging the strength of our world-leading resources sector to help deliver the quality infrastructure and services regional communities need to unlock the next wave of economic development in regional WA."
**Comments attributed to Deputy Premier and Sport and Recreation Minister Rita Saffioti:**
"We're proud that the Pilbara powers the nation's economy and we want to support the families who live and work in the region. 
"We're working hard to deliver quality sport and recreation infrastructure across regional WA, and this new aquatic centre will be a fantastic addition for the Hedland community.
"Our $22.5 million commitment, together with BHP's $20 million contribution through the RCII, will help deliver a modern facility that supports local families and encourages active lifestyles."
**Comments attributed to Education Minister Sabine Winton:**
"The Cook Labor Government is focused on delivering quality services across our State to support a high quality of life for Western Australians, no matter where they live. 
"BHP's contribution of $80 million through the Resource Community Investment Initiative towards Hedland Senior High School is a significant boost for students, teachers and families of Port Hedland. 
"It will mean educating the next generation of our nation's economic powerhouse in a state-of-the-art secondary school."
**Comments attributed to Housing and Works Minister John Carey:**
"Our government is committed to increasing the supply of government and key worker housing and this partnership will help to support that.
"We're investing record amounts in housing and unlocking further housing opportunities by working with industry."
**Comments attributed to Pilbara MLA Kevin Michel:**
"I'm proud to be part of the Cook Labor Government, which is delivering jobs, health and housing to the Pilbara as part of the Resources Community Investment Initiative and its Seven Cities vision.
"I want to thank BHP for its investment in schools, facilities and housing in Port Hedland, where these quality services will ensure the town remains a great place to live, work and raise a family."
**Comments attributed to BHP Australia President Geraldine Slattery:**
"Strong communities like Hedland don't happen by chance. They're built by people and supported by partnerships that last. 
"This is BHP's biggest community investment in Western Australia. It will help young people get a good education, build great local facilities and ensure more housing for the people who deliver vital services to the region. 
"Together with Premier Cook and the Western Australian Government, we're delivering what matters to local people."
**Comments attributed to BHP Iron Ore asset president Tim Day:**
"These projects will transform how education is delivered in Port Hedland, set a new standard for recreation, and help to tackle the acute accommodation shortage for service workers.
"BHP is committed to making a difference in our communities, so investing in these projects to ensure they are delivered is the right thing to do.
"They will reward our teachers and students, deliver long-term community benefits, and help to support the workers who keep Port Hedland running."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
4 June 2026 
Ministers
Premier; Minister for State Development; Trade and Investment; Economic Diversification 
Deputy Premier; Treasurer; Minister for Transport; Sport and Recreation 
Minister for Education; Early Childhood; Preventative Health; Wheatbelt 
Minister for Planning and Lands; Housing and Works; Health Infrastructure 
[See all media statements from this Government](
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](
