<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://agriculture.vic.gov.au/about/media-centre/media-releases/2026-releases/to-clean-or-not-to-clean-managing-dam-sediment

**25 May 2026**
Farmers in south west Victoria may be considering cleaning out sediment from their dams after prolonged dry weather.
However, Agriculture Victoria Land Management Extension Officer Clem Sturmfels is urging farmers to carefully assess the risks, timing, and likely benefits before starting any works.
‘Cleaning out dams at this time of the year can be difficult, dangerous, and expensive. Handling wet dam sediment requires specialised equipment.
‘Using a bulldozer to remove this sediment is slow and tedious work and excavators usually don’t have the reach to do this work efficiently,’ said Mr Sturmfels.
He said dams with fresh deposits of soil, manure, and other organic matter are more likely to grow algae and bacteria. In these situations, allowing these deposits to dry out first can make removal easier using a scraper or bulldozer.
‘It’s important to closely monitor the dams while waiting for them to dry out to avoid any animal health issues.
‘Dams with older sediment are less likely to have water quality concerns. However, it is important to bear in mind that a metre or so of sediment will have little impact on dam capacity.
‘Assessing the depth of sediment in a dam can be difficult. Farmers can make an estimate by measuring the depth of the dam and comparing that to the dam’s dimensions,’ he said.
Mr Sturmfels said a depth sounder or Damdeep measuring device can also be used. [See video of making and using Damdeep.]( "Do your dams still hold the same amount of water?") He said farmers are encouraged to consider the following when undertaking dam cleaning activities:
  * the sides of dams can be slippery and pose a risk to humans, stock, and plant operators
  * dam sediment should be placed in a location where it cannot re-enter the dam or other waterways
  * steepening the sides of the dam can result in erosion and further sedimentation
  * avoid any works which impact the structural integrity of the dam or associated outlet devices.
Farmers may find they get a better water security return by focusing on improving capture, reducing losses, and improving water quality or access instead.
It’s recommended to contact the local rural water authority in your area prior to commencing sediment removal works, as a permit may be required. [Find your rural water corporation](
For information about available support visit [Drought support]( "Drought support") or call 
**Media contact:** media@deeca.vic.gov.au
=======
Story's url: https://www.niaa.gov.au/news-and-media/niaa-launches-its-stretch-reconciliation-action-plan-2026-2029

__ Friday, 29 May 2026
The National Indigenous Australians Agency (NIAA) is proud to share its [Stretch Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) 2026–2029]( "NIAA Stretch Reconciliation Action Plan 2026-2029").
The RAP was launched by NIAA CEO Ms Julie-Ann Guivarra, on Thursday 28 May as part of National Reconciliation Week.
The 2026–2029 Stretch RAP builds on previous commitments and focuses on embedding reconciliation into the way the Agency works every day. It drives systemic change through truth-telling, accountability and healing, and supports the transformational shifts required under the National Agreement on Closing the Gap.
Through our RAP we work to build trust, foster respectful relationships, and create the conditions that enable healing and sustained change — led by the priorities and aspirations of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
[View the Stretch Reconciliation Action Plan 2026–2029]( "NIAA Stretch Reconciliation Action Plan 2026-2029")
Topic: [NIAA Corporate](
[__Back to News](
[See All News](
NIAA Corporate | News
__ Friday, 27 Mar 2026
NIAA Corporate | News
__ Friday, 31 Oct 2025
NIAA Corporate | News
__ Friday, 29 Aug 2025
NIAA Corporate | News
__ Thursday, 06 Feb 2025
[See All News](
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
