[Download the official portrait of the Minister](
[Biography](
[Contact](
  * Transcript, E&OE
Subjects: Conflict in the Middle East.
01 March 2026 
**Penny Wong, Foreign Minister:** I'll start by saying that Australia stands with the brave people of Iran in their struggle against oppression. For decades we know the Iranian regime has been a destabilising force through its ballistic missile and nuclear programmes, support for armed proxies, and brutal acts of violence and intimidation. Australia, along with the international community, have called for the regime to uphold the human rights and fundamental freedoms of Iran's citizens. Instead, what we have seen is a brutal crackdown, killing thousands of its own citizens. And you would have heard me say that a regime that requires the murder of its own people to maintain authority is a regime without legitimacy. The international community has been clear that this regime can never be allowed to develop a nuclear weapon. So Australia supports action to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon and to prevent Iran from continuing to threaten international peace and security.
Obviously, Australia did not participate in these strikes. We are in contact with our international partners. We do not want to see this escalate into a wider regional conflict. We continue to urge the protection of civilian life and, as others have, we seek the resumption of dialogue and diplomacy. We join our partners in calling on all parties to adhere to international humanitarian law. Our first priority is doing all we can to ensure the safety of Australians. The National Security Committee of the Cabinet met this morning. Australian officials are closely monitoring this evolving situation.
Given the concerns around security for the region, last night I upgraded our travel advice to ‘Do not travel’ for Israel, Lebanon, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. There have been travel advice changes to other countries in the region and I urge Australians to observe the travel advice. Australians in those countries that I have just listed should leave now if it is safe to do so. We also call on Iran to cease its indiscriminate attacks against other countries in the region, many of which are not party to this conflict. We have seen attacks in the region, including on the UAE and also on Tel Aviv, and we call on Iran to cease these attacks.
The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade is urgently seeking to confirm whether any Australians have been affected. We have activated our crisis centre to provide consular support to Australians in the region. And this morning we are opening our registration portal for Australians in Iran and Israel to provide information as soon as possible. I would say to Australians this is a difficult period. The days ahead will be difficult and we will do our best to give you the information we are able to get to you.
In relation to Iran, I think all Australians will recall that Iran directed at least two attacks on Australian soil in 2024, appalling acts targeting Australia's Jewish community. And they were acts that were intended to create fear, to divide our society and to challenge our sovereignty. In response, Australia took the unprecedented step of expelling Iran's ambassador. We suspended operations at our embassy in Tehran. and we listed the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, known as the IRGC, as a state sponsor of terrorism. The Albanese government has taken stronger action against Iran than any previous Australian Government. We have sanctioned more than 200 Iranian-linked individuals, including 100 linked to the IRGC.
I want to make some comments directed at the Australian-Iranian community at this time. My thoughts are with you. We recognise this is a distressing time for so many, compounded by the communications blackout and your inability to reach your friends and family in Iran. Australia reiterates that the Iranian people must be allowed to determine their own future for their country.
The Government will continue to provide updates and share information as we can. This is obviously a very volatile and risky situation. Australians requiring urgent consular assistant can contact the Consular Emergency Centre which is open 24 hours a day on 1300 555 135 in Australia or +61 2 6261 3305 from outside Australia. I'm happy to take questions.
**Journalist:** Did Australia get any pre-warning about these strikes?
**Foreign Minister:** We weren't told in advance, you wouldn't expect us to be, but you would see that there have been, there's obviously been a lot of open-source discussion about this. We are not at the centre of the issues in the Middle East, but we obviously play a role in the international community.
**Journalist:** Does Australia support regime change, forced regime change in Iran? And are we prepared to send troops if necessary?
**Foreign Minister:** We stand with the people of Iran in fighting against an oppressive regime. Ultimately, Iran's future must be determined by the people of Iran. In relation to Australian involvement, obviously we did not participate in the strikes, and you would not expect us to participate.
**Journalist:** Can you rule out Australia--
**Foreign Minister:** You would not expect us to participate.
**Journalist:** Is that even indirectly you mean as well, Minister, there's no Australian Defence Force or Pine Gap for any engagement like that?
**Foreign Minister:** We never comment on that facility as a general proposition. But what I would say is that these are strikes which are determined by the parties concerned, which is the United States and Israel. Obviously, we have personnel in the region, we are ensuring that their safety and security is our first priority.
**Journalist:** Does Australia think these strikes are justified?
**Foreign Minister:** We support action to deal with the Iranian nuclear threat and we've made that clear previously.
**Journalist:** Israel described this as a pre-emptive strike, so was there an imminent threat? Was there talk of that? Is that why this was [indistinct]?
**Foreign Minister:** I'll leave it for the United States and Israel to speak of the basis, the legal basis for the attacks. What I would say to Australians is that Iran has been a destabilising force in the region for decades. It has orchestrated attacks on Australia, and I think we all understand that this issue did not start yesterday.
**Journalist:** There are many Australian expats living in the UAE and around the Middle East who are no doubt particularly distressed at the moment. What would you tell them about how they can leave? Will there be a chance to put them on a particular flight to move them out of it? There's no way to get out of the airspace. How will they get out if there's a do not leave?
**Foreign Minister:** Look, I am absolutely aware, the Government's very aware, this is extremely distressing and concerning for the region, and particularly Australians in the region. What we would say is that our focus is on the security and safety of Australians in the region. What I would also say is we do anticipate difficult days ahead, and we'll continue to provide information and whatever assistance we are able. As I said, we have opened the registration portal for consular assistance for Australians in Israel and in Iran.
**Journalist:** So will there be any repatriation event?
**Foreign Minister:** Well, at this stage, the airspace is closed.
**Journalist:** But you're expecting information--
**Foreign Minister:** Well, you would have seen we've been in this situation a number of times. We have always worked to do what we can to support Australians. We will always do that. At this situation, the airspace is closed.
**Journalist:** And just to be clear, do you have an idea of how many Australians could be in the region affected, or I think you sort of said before you didn't know?
**Foreign Minister:** Look, we can identify the number of Australians who register with us. There are obviously large numbers of Australians in the region more broadly, which is why Australia continues to, along with our international partners, to say, that we need to avoid, if at all possible, a broader regional escalation. There are obviously many, many Australians throughout the region.
**Journalist:** Yes, the people who might be watching at home said a number of times now, it's a really difficult time. Just how worried should someone at home be right now?
**Foreign Minister:** Obviously, this is a conflict in a region which is volatile. We continue to support Australians in the region to the best of our ability. What I would say to Australians is that we are engaged with our international partners. We are engaged with our consular support personnel, and we will continue to do everything we can to support Australians.
**Journalist:** Have you been able to independently confirm the death of the Ayatollah, and does that end the tyranny in in Iran and for Iranians?
**Foreign Minister:** Obviously, I've seen the reports. I don't have independent confirmation, but I've seen the public reports, including, I think, from the President of the United States. I think no one would mourn the passing of Ayatollah Khamenei. But I would also say that, ultimately, any regime change must be determined by the people of Iran.
**Journalist:** And what can Australia do, perhaps in not a military sense, to support a regime change, perhaps not forcing it? What is Australia doing behind the scenes?
**Foreign Minister:** Well, we are obviously not at the centre of the issues in the Middle East. I've said that many times, you've heard that before. What we can continue to do is what we have done, which is to impose the broadest possible sanctions on a regime which has been brutalising its own people. As I said, the Albanese Government has taken stronger action against Iran than any previous Australian government.
**Journalist:** Do you expect there will be another national security meeting tomorrow, or how frequently do you expect to have those?
**Foreign Minister:** Well, we will have them as necessary, but you would know from experience, the Prime Minister does have a view about the importance of bringing officials together for consideration of matters of national security, and I would anticipate that that will continue. Anything more?
**Journalist:** Are the embassies and consulates remaining open, or [indistinct]
**Foreign Minister:** We have already withdrawn personnel from Iran. We have done that previously as a consequence of the attacks on Australian soil that were directed by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard. We continue to have personnel in the region. Obviously, those posts continue to be staffed.
**Journalist:** Are you surprised by Iran's attacks on Bahrain and Dubai, particularly Dubai Airport. I mean, that is the busiest airport in the world. Are you surprised that that's the way they're reacting?
**Foreign Minister:** We condemn the Iranian attack on Dubai. Again, we say we want to avoid the escalation into a broader regional conflict with consequences for the people of the region.
**Journalist:** In the last 24 hours, what conversations have you had with your U.S. counterparts?
**Foreign Minister:** We've engaged, obviously, at official level. I've not had a direct conversation with Secretary Rubio.
**Journalist:** Are you expecting to?
**Foreign Minister:** I wouldn't anticipate - we're not a central player on these issues.
**Journalist:** And how about Israeli counterparts? Are you having conversations with them?
**Foreign Minister:** The Israeli Foreign Minister spoke to me late last night and briefed me on the situation, which is consistent with what I've said. Anything further?
**Journalist:** [Indistinct]
**Foreign Minister:** Look, the advice to me as of about an hour ago is that currently airspace is closed. So obviously we will get that information, whatever information we have and that we are able to confirm, we will provide to Australians in the region as quickly as we can. Thank you very much. Thanks very much for coming.
  * Minister's office: (02) 6277 7500
  * DFAT Media Liaison: (02) 6261 1555
