Story's url: https://www.nacc.gov.au/news-and-media/monthly-update-june-2026

News 
Published:
4 Jun 2026
Content
This is the Commission’s monthly update for June, providing visibility to the media and the public on our key activities and work underway.
As at 3 June, we are conducting 29 preliminary investigations and 34 corruption investigations. Four of our matters are currently before the courts, and since our commencement 11 convictions have been secured as a result of investigations we have commenced or continued.
We have recently published 2 investigation reports, with findings of corrupt conduct in each investigation.
  * In Operation Pentecost, we found that an Australian Federal Police appointee engaged in serious corrupt conduct by abusing his position to disclose sensitive law enforcement information to a criminal associate, which could have compromised a major law enforcement operation.
  * In Operation Young, we found that an Australian Border Force officer abused his office to access protected information and improperly disclosed information from it to the benefit of an associate who was a person of interest.
We also published case studies based on each investigation to provide a shorter, more digestible version of the investigation report and boost understanding of the corruption vulnerabilities and threats at play.
The NACC inherited both investigations from its predecessor agency, the Australian Commission for Law Enforcement Integrity (ACLEI). These are the final investigation reports for matters we inherited from ACLEI, marking a significant milestone.
[Read the investigation reports.](
We have published an updated guideline to promote understanding of the meaning of ‘serious’ or ‘systemic’ corrupt conduct and provide examples of conduct that could meet that threshold.
We investigate serious or systemic corrupt conduct, but the NACC Act does not define what this means.
‘Serious’ relates to the scale, impact and/or gravity of the corrupt conduct. Conduct is more likely to qualify as serious if it involves, for example, significant misuse of public money, an impact on vulnerable people, or senior decision-makers.
‘Systemic’ refers to conduct that is a pattern of behaviour that relates to a process or agency. Typically, there will be multiple instances, usually involving multiple officials, and those instances reflect weaknesses or failures in a system.
[Read the guideline.](
An interactive eLearning module to provide an overview of the NACC and our role in relation to parliamentarians and their staff, based on our [Parliamentarians and their staff guide]( is now available on our website.
Parliamentarians face specific corruption risks and vulnerabilities, including grants, public sector appointments and the use of parliamentary resources and staff.
[Access the eLearning module.](
The full program for the Australian Public Sector Anti-Corruption Conference (APSACC), to be hosted by the NACC in Canberra from 7-9 September 2026, has been published on the APSACC website.
The program includes a variety of full-day and half-day workshops. Participants can choose from workshops ranging from sharing best practice in Australian and Pacific anti-corruption agencies, developing a corruption prevention program, and enhancing consistency and transparency in the assessment of corruption matters.
APSACC is Australia's leading anti-corruption event, attracting industry leaders and experts from across state and territory, federal, public and private sectors, as well as around the world.
Register or find out more on the [APSACC 2026 website](
News
[ **** Monthly update: June 2026 (PDF 176.27 KB) ](
