<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/liberal-and-national-cuts-coming-regional-victoria

Published: 
     Friday 29 May 2026 at 8:45 am
Jess Wilson and her junior partners in the Nationals have announced the first part of their cuts plan.
The Liberals and Nationals will slash 1 in 7 public servants – directly impacting services in our regions.
New analysis released today shows that this means at least 1,500 workers across regional Victoria will be canned.
**Across Victoria this cuts plan means** :
  * More than 430 workers would go in Geelong and the Barwon South-West region
  * More than 350 workers would be ripped out of Ballarat and the Grampians region.
  * More than 260 workers would be cut in Bendigo and the Loddon-Mallee region.
  * More than 230 workers would be slashed in Gippsland.
  * More than 200 workers would axed in Wodonga and the Hume Region.
Victorian Public Service employees in our regions provide vital services to the community.
They include allied health professionals, child protection workers, biosecurity professionals and forest fire fighters.
They’re working right across regional Victoria, and their work keeps our regional towns healthy and safe.
This is just the start of Jess Wilson’s plan to cut Victorian services. 
And the Nationals have backed it– because they've got no bite, no fight, they're just Liberal-lite.
Independent economists say her full economic plan would require “radical cuts.”
That’s because she can’t make up her $40 billion promise without cutting further.
Jess Wilson and the Liberals will still need to close hospitals and schools and cut nurses and teachers across   
regional Victoria – devastating regional towns and cities across our state.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Regional Development Michaela Settle**
_“Jess Wilson’s plan slashes 1 in 7 public servants – and we all know the Liberals won’t stop there.”_
_“These Liberal and National cuts will hit every sector in regional Victoria, including critical biosecurity work that keeps our agricultural sector safe, competitive, and productive.”_
_“Jess Wilson and Danny O’Brien’s plan means one thing, cuts to regional hospitals, schools and police – and thousands of regional Victorians out of work.”_
[ 260529 - Liberal And National Cuts Coming To Regional Victoria PDF 279.31 KB (opens in a new window) ](
Regional Development
=======
Story's url: https://theenergy.co/article/industry-looks-to-alternatives-amid-distressing-vpp-snub

[Capital]( [Energy Systems]( newsMay 29 2026
Retailers want to see networks come to the party as they acknowledge more value needed to convince customers
By [Charis Palmer](
Home batteries are taking off in the wake of federal and state subsidies - Shutterstock
Energy retailers are pointing to networks and offering up battery plans that don’t include orchestration as consumers with home batteries continue to snub virtual power plant (VPP) offerings that could help the grid.
The Australian Energy Market Operator [says]( operating home batteries optimally would save approximately $3.1 billion in investment otherwise needed by 2050 to maintain reliability particularly during evening peaks.
But it has been forced to [revise down]( forecasted uptake of VPPs that would enable this as less than 20 per cent of consumers enrol in a VPP from their retailer.
AEMO chief Daniel Westerman was this week pragmatic about the trend, telling the Energy Users Association conference perhaps it doesn’t have to be “all singing or dancing” given households with home batteries were already using their battery to soak up solar or drawing off the grid when it’s cheap, “making a significant difference already”.
But he said more work was needed to develop the right value propositions to attract households and smaller businesses with batteries and electric vehicles to VPPs, and pointed to AEMO’s work on the energy demand reform agenda and the development of the Demand Side Statement of Opportunities.  
Former Energy Security Board chair Kerry Schott was more damning, telling the audience “I actually agree with Mark Collette from EnergyAustralia and Lachlan Blackhall with ANU — that we need to [put a red flag up ]( the VPPs”.
“Their take up is very small. Most households have a look at it and clearly decide that the benefit they get from it doesn't appear to be worthwhile giving up control of their assets…it's actually quite distressing,”
Retailers, for their part, have started to point to networks and the need for market reform to help deliver consumers a better value proposition.
Louisa Kinnear, CEO of retailer lobby group the Australian Energy Council this week told the Energy Efficiency Council's conference that there was “probably a lot more value sitting on the table” than the on-average $200 a year consumers gain from signing up for a VPP plan.
“Retailers are actually quite willing to share that value because it helps manage retailer risk. Where the value is locked up actually comes back to these network signals and the fact that we don't have the right structures in place for networks to provide the right signals around what I'm starting to call flexibility services.
“We need to create a market that values flexibility, and whether that flexibility occurs on the demand or supply side doesn't actually really matter,” Kinnear said.
Origin Energy currently offers three different plans for home battery owners. The gentailer’s head of commercial and business development Chris Abrams told the conference the one offering competitive import rates and a premium feed-in tariff was surpassing the other two that had some orchestration.
“It’s fair to say that the majority of the customers across those three plans are choosing the one where they maintain control.”
Abrams said when customers signed up they asked two questions: "Is this going to be right for me?" and then down the track, "Is it actually working for me?"
“And It's very difficult to give good answers on either of those questions.”
He added that describing discounts such as those in the DMO or VDO was "completely meaningless to the battery customer”.
“And when we talk about how much savings the customer has made, it's very prescriptive about how that needs to work. And so actually, it's very difficult to say to a customer, ‘you're making great savings, because you can't say it.”
Abrams agreed work was needed to encourage networks to “put some meaningful value on the table.”
“We've got to increase the size of the pool. The way that we're going to get more people to take up VPPs is to make it clear there's value on the table. And networks have a big role to play there.”
[Virtual Power Plants]( [Consumer energy resources]( [Daniel Westerman](
* * *
[Charis Palmer]( is Editor-in-Chief at The Energy. Charis has spent her journalism and publishing career in specialist media and startups focused on breaking down complex information for general and business audiences. She founded Banking Review Media, a subscription publication for bankers, and later served as editor of Business Spectator, Chief of Staff at The Conversation and CEO of Schwartz Pro and Australian Energy Daily.
* * *
[ Renewables will comprise two-thirds of global energy spending this year: IEA  ](
[ Subscribe to The Energy  ](
Copy URL Copy link to page Link copied!
[ Share on LinkedIn  ](
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
