Story's url: https://www.industry.gov.au/news/australian-government-has-signed-memorandum-understanding-mou-tech-giant-microsoft

Collaborative arrangements with leading AI and technology companies are a commitment under the National AI Plan. 
23 April 2026
2 min read
This is the second arrangement under the National AI Plan to help strengthen our national AI capabilities and ensure responsible, innovative AI development. 
The National AI Plan sets out the government’s ambition to capture the opportunities of AI, spread the benefits and keep Australians safe. 
One of the commitments under that plan is to enter collaborative arrangements with leading AI and tech companies to build Australia’s AI capabilities.
These arrangements will encourage responsible development of AI, attract investment, and improve safety. They are high-level, non-legally-binding arrangements that set expectations aligned with Australia’s national interest. They signal the government’s intent to collaborate with industry leaders, build relationships and progress actions under the plan.
The government is open to exploring similar arrangements with other leading AI and technology companies. 
[ Link copied ]( "Copy link to this section")
Microsoft is a global leader in digital infrastructure and AI-enabled tools that Australians use every day at work and at home. Collaborating with Microsoft supports delivery of the National AI Plan by strengthening Australia’s AI capability, safety and security settings, and domestic ecosystem.
  * In 2023, Microsoft announced an investment of $5 billion over 2 years to expand its data centre footprint in Australia from 20 to 29 sites, increasing national compute capacity. It has also partnered with Australian organisations to boost digital skills through the Microsoft Datacentre Academy. 
  * The government welcomes further opportunity to work with Microsoft to help Australia capture the opportunities of AI, spread the benefits and keep Australians safe.
The MoU outlines that Microsoft intends to:
  * continue investment in Australian AI capability and cloud computing
  * align with the government’s [ _Expectations for data centres and AI infrastructure developers_](
  * help the government understand future infrastructure needs to support Australia as a trusted regional hub
  * collaborate with government on AI safety and workforce capability
  * support delivery of the APS AI Plan and explore future APS collaboration.
[ Link copied ]( "Copy link to this section")
[The minister announced the agreement on 23 April 2026 (external link)](
[Interested in collaborating or learn more about our collaborative arrangements on AI ](
[Read the National AI Plan ](
[Read more about Australia’s AI policies and initiatives](
