<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/supporting-local-sports-clubs-new-facilities

Published: 
     Thursday 28 May 2026 at 5:00 pm
Local sports clubs in Fitzroy can look forward to a new home ground advantage with major upgrades underway at Brunswick Street Oval.
Minister Spence today visited the oval to mark the official start of works, made possible by Labor’s $12.8 million investment _._
A new two-storey sports pavilion will include two female friendly change rooms, a first aid room, kiosk, social space and kitchen.
This will enable Fitzroy Football Club, Fitzroy Junior Football Club and Edinburgh Cricket Club to host more training and competitions.
Fitzroy Tennis Club’s facilities are getting a revamp with the existing six courts set for an upgrade and two new courts on the way. 
The clubhouse will also be relocated and improved.
Facilities in the historic Kevin Murray Stand are also having a facelift. 
This includes upgrades to the public toilets, improved umpire changerooms, and new stairs. 
External works will preserve the heritage status of the iconic building and bring it back to life.
The project will deliver more energy-efficient lighting around the precinct as well as landscaping improvements.
The works will support significant new employment opportunities during construction and operation.
Completion is expected in late 2027.
The _Victorian Budget 2026/27_ is providing $24 million to support the development of high-quality, accessible community sports infrastructure across the state, including through the Local Sports Infrastructure Fund.
It’s part of more than $2.4 billion Labor has invested in community sport and active recreation infrastructure. 
Yarra City Council is contributing $3.58 million, Cricket Australia and the Australian Football League are contributing $100,000 each and Clifroy Bank is providing $50,000.
For more information about infrastructure grant opportunities available through the Victorian Government visit [sport.vic.gov.au]( 
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Community Sport Ros Spence**
_“We want more Victorians to participate in the sports they love.”_
_“These facilities will meet the needs of these growing clubs while delivering jobs, stimulating the local economy and improving the health and wellbeing for locals.”_
**Quotes attributable Member for Northern Metropolitan Sheena Watt MP**
_“Since 1884, the ground has been a major fixture in Melbourne’s sporting scene. From hosting VFA and VFL games up until the late 1960’s, to now being an important base for local footy, cricket, tennis and more.”_
_“These upgrades are a game changer for the whole Fitzroy community_ -_opening the door to a new era of opportunities to play, build new sport pathways and host big events.”_
[ 260528 - Breathing New Life Into Local Sports Facilities.pdf PDF 282.12 KB (opens in a new window) ](
Sport & recreation
=======
Story's url: https://theenergy.co/article/federal-energy-department-dives-into-demand-side

[Energy Systems]( newsMay 28 2026
Much of Australia's energy modelling has focused on the supply side of electricity. That is all set to change with the first-ever model to put a cost on using EVs, heating and cooling to generate savings for the grid
By [Kate Burgess](
Energy Minister Chris Bowen first flagged the Demand Side Statement of Opportunities last September - Jamilla Filippone/SEC
The federal Department of Climate Change, Energy, Environment and Water has confirmed that it will release its inaugural study into how the demand side of electricity can help the energy transition, the Demand Statement of Opportunities, later in 2026.
The CSIRO, which is preparing modelling called FlexCost that will feed into the study that will help the Australian Energy Market Operator improve its market forecasts for system planning, also released an update showing how a cost can be put on things like insulation, solar hot water, pool heaters, heat pumps and EV batteries and used to reduce electricity demand.
The troika of agencies all spoke at the Energy Efficiency Council conference on Thursday. DCCEEW Director, Industrial Energy Performance Policy Jennie Cassidy, explained how the DSOO would boost knowledge on the demand side, which is not usually taken into account in determining the cost of producing electricity.
“The way that we use energy is really changing quite rapidly, and there's going to be a really important role for energy users in the energy transition, if we want to accelerate decarbonisation and transition in the most cost-effective way,” Cassidy told the audience, adding that DSOO was [first flagged by]( Climate and Energy Minister Chris Bowen last September.
“What we're trying to do with the DSOO is to think about how we can evolve some of our approaches to planning the energy system that reflect how important the demand side is going to be as the system evolves.
“Historically, energy demand has been relatively stable, and that has meant that the approach has been to build supply to accommodate it. But now we’re finding that this is changing.”
The demand side of electricity is set to become a lot more important as industrial customers choose to flex their HVAC loads up and down in response to market conditions, and more consumers opt in to Virtual Power Plants and use bi-directional EV charging.
“Some of those decisions are going to have important implications for the size of the energy system and the type of energy system that we’ll need in the future. We think about how we can start to weigh up some of those demand side opportunities, and compare them with decisions or investments that we might want to make on the supply side,” Cassidy added.
CSIRO energy strategy leader Chris Dunstan is leading the “bottom-up” FlexCost analysis that will generate cost units that can be fed into the DSOO. In a presentation showing the methodology to be used, he said that FlexCost will look to place a cost on providing incentives for asset owners to flex their usage up and down according to electricity demand. A FlexCost report is due to be released next week.
FlexCost must take into account a range of costs in providing a demand side asset that can be used like a generator, Dunstan added.
“We need to recognise that there's a lot more to the energy system than just generation. There's networks - there's a bunch of additional costs that are also relevant.”
Dunstan explained that the key cost inputs were capital costs and operating costs. In the generation sector, all of the CAPEX and OPEX is pushed down to consumers. But on the demand side, some of that cost is owned directly by the customers, because they already own the assets.
“There are the costs of providing an incentive to the owner, because the asset is not usually like a shared resource and the network costs involved in transporting the electricity to the grid,” he added.
FlexCost has to date been focused on the residential and small business sector due to the industry body’s focus - but is now being “flexed-up” to include the commercial and industrial sector to factor in heavier equipment like HVAC units at warehouses, Dunstan added.
The first-of-its-kind analysis will examine the role that data centres are likely to play in helping demand management on the electricity grid.
In a separate panel discussion, Clean Energy Finance Corporation research director Owen Pascoe said his team had found that the addition of a new large data centre to the grid was “equivalent to an aluminium smelter” in terms of its electricity usage.
_Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that DCCEEW is undertaking the FlexCost study. We have confirmed that it is in fact CSIRO._
[Consumer energy resources]( [Chris Dunstan]( [CSIRO](
* * *
[Kate Burgess]( is The Energy’s Senior Reporter. A financial journalist and editor with experience spanning 20 years and three continents, Kate was founding APAC editor of InfraLogic, an infrastructure newswire now part of ION Analytics. Most recently Kate launched climate and energy coverage at Capital Brief, and has also held reporting roles at The Australian Financial Review, BRW, ICIS Energy and property trade titles.
* * *
[ Unlocking Australia’s renewables potential starts with coordinated energy planning  ](
[ Subscribe to The Energy  ](
Copy URL Copy link to page Link copied!
[ Share on LinkedIn  ](
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
