Story's url: https://www.agriculture.gov.au/about/news/smarter-planning-disease-animal-threats

11 March 2026
Australia’s strong biosecurity system helps protect agricultural industries worth billions of dollars in trade each year. However, if a major animal disease outbreak like foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) were to occur, it could have serious consequences with potential costs of up to $80 billion. 
Feral pigs add to this risk. They are destructive to agricultural industries and can spread animal diseases in a way that’s hard to predict, making disease outbreak management far more challenging.
To reduce the impacts of diseases like FMD on livestock industries and the wider community, we need to be able to understand how relevant animal populations, like feral pigs, may influence how diseases spread.
To achieve this, we’ve partnered with leading researchers from the Centre of Excellence for Biosecurity Risk Analysis (CEBRA) to expand one of our powerful outbreak planning tools: the Australian Animal Disease Spread (AADIS) model. This model is a key part of preparing for potential animal disease outbreaks.
Recently, the AADIS model for FMD was expanded to include data on feral pigs, following earlier work that incorporated feral pig data into the AADIS African Swine Fever (ASF) model. 
The updated modelling has shown that targeted management of feral pigs could help limit the spread of these diseases in some locations. This may reduce the duration and impact of an outbreak, including the number of livestock animals that may need to be culled.
This means greater security and faster recovery for agricultural industries if an outbreak occurs. Improved planning and response will help safeguard Australia’s reputation as a reliable trading partner, supporting continued access to global markets.
Australia’s leadership in disease modelling is recognised globally. AADIS has been adapted for more than 20 countries, helping authorities prepare for and respond to outbreaks of important diseases, including challenges with wild boar in Europe. 
What began as an FMD model has grown into a versatile platform that supports animal, environmental and even human disease modelling, with the research contributing to integrated and global solutions.
This work is the result of more than a decade of collaboration with research partners through CEBRA. It demonstrates how long-term investment in science delivers practical solutions that protect industry and trade.
Read more about this research project in 
Photo credit: Nic Perkins
08 December 2025
30 September 2025
22 September 2025
