<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.industry.gov.au/news/domestic-gas-reservation-scheme-draft-design-framework-have-your-say

We are seeking further feedback on how the reservation scheme will operate. Consultation is open until 30 June 2026.
25 May 2026
2 min read
The Australian Government announced it will introduce a Domestic Gas Reservation Scheme. Under the scheme, LNG exporters will be required to supply 20% of their export volumes to the domestic market. The scheme will start in 2027 with obligations expected to start on 1 July 2027.
We have considered feedback from public consultation in March on early design of the reservation scheme. We now invite interested stakeholders to give feedback on the draft design framework.
The draft design framework outlines how the reservation scheme would operate. It includes key aspects such as:
  * regulatory architecture
  * reservation design, including how the domestic supply obligation is calculated
  * compliance and other operational elements
  * integrated market reforms.
The government is also progressing complementary market reforms to support transparency and conduct to support effective and efficient markets. These reforms are an opportunity to streamline the gas market regulatory framework.
This consultation will directly inform final design settings, presenting a key opportunity to provide input before the scheme is finalised. 
  * Submit your feedback by 11:30pm (AEST) on Tuesday 30 June 2026. 
[ Link copied ]( "Copy link to this section")
[Read about the government’s current domestic gas supply measures](
[ Link copied ]( "Copy link to this section")
Email
=======
Story's url: https://theenergy.co/article/final-default-market-offer-has-some-surprise-upward-revisions

[Regulation]( newsMay 26 2026
The Australian Energy Regulator's final DMO revised some fixed rate tariffs higher than the draft versions, but the new tariffs mostly reflect big savings compared to last year
By [Kate Burgess](
Some energy bills will be lower from July when new DMO prices come into effect - Shutterstock
Some South Australian and South-East Queensland homes and small businesses on fixed tariffs and some New South Wales customers will face marginally higher electricity bills than expected on July 1 when Default Market Offer prices come into force.
Final DMO prices the Australian Energy Regulator released on Tuesday revised upwards a fixed South Australian tariff that was due to drop 1.3 per cent in the draft, but will instead go up by 1.4 per cent. A small business flat rate was increased by $466 to $5,162, but will still deliver customers a 6.8 per cent saving.
Overall, the revisions made to the DMO prices between the March draft release and now were minimal and mostly represent sizeable discounts to last year’s tariffs. The AER cited lower wholesale electricity prices, with futures contracts for 2026-27 continuing to trade lower, and reduced spot price volatility since June 2025 with fewer high-price events which it defines as exceeding $5,000/MWh, as the main reasons for the lower offer prices.
Another factor for lower wholesale prices across the National Electricity Market, where the DMO will partially apply, is that more output from wind farms and battery storage are reducing reliance on more expensive gas and pumped hydro in the evening peak periods. Climate Change and Energy Minister Chris Bowen gleefully attributed this market trend in a press conference to respond to the pricing release on Tuesday morning.
Department of Climate Change, the Environment and Water deputy secretary of the Energy Group, Matt Brine, told Budget Senate Estimates that the department had been most surprised by the role of batteries in influencing prices.
"They are playing an increasing role in pricing formation. They are now setting the price 31 per cent of the time rather than 16 per cent of the time last year. A very significant change in twelve months. [Meanwhile], the period that gas sets the price has fallen from eight to four per cent.
"So batteries are reducing volatility in the system and setting prices at lower levels more often."
Other small tweaks in the final numbers included a $615 increase in the Queensland small business flat rate to $5,517, but customers on the offer will still save 11.3 per cent compared to 2025. In regional New South Wales, the default price has been nudged up $89 to $2,604, but still reflects a 5 per cent decrease compared to last year.
Residential flat rate prices will fall between 3.5 and 5 per cent in NSW, by 7.2 per cent in Queensland, and rise by 1.4 per cent in South Australia. NSW customers on time-of-use tariffs - who must have smart meters - will have bill reductions of between 3.7 per cent and 7.7 per cent, up to 10.7 per cent in Queensland and 1.1 per cent in South Australia.
Business customers on flat rates will see their prices fall between 9-11.3 per cent in NSW, reduce 10.4 per cent in Queensland and 6.8 per cent in South Australia. Those on time of use tariffs in NSW will enjoy a 20.9 per cent price reduction, 14 per cent if they are in Queensland and 12.1 per cent if in South Australia.
The AER did not explicitly state the exact factors behind the largest upward revisions, besides localised changes in wholesale prices, they may partially reflect [adjusted distribution network prices]( for 2026-27 that the AER handed down in April that were mostly higher than the previous year.
Chair Clare Savage said the final prices also take into account industry and consumer feedback, and that the regulator’s modelling showed that the Middle East conflict had yet to negatively affect Australian electricity markets.
This year’s final DMO prices include fixed and time-of-use tariffs for the Solar Sharer offer, which will be offered to consumers with smart meters in the three states where it applies from July 1. Customers who opt-in will receive free electricity in NSW and south-east Queensland between 11am-2pm, and 12-3pm in South Australia.
Electricity retailers will determine the exact tariffs charged to Solar Sharer customers in the evening peak periods, although the AER has mandated caps on daily supply charges from networks and usage charges that are not to exceed 63.7kWh.
Australian Energy Council chief executive Louisa Kinnear said that while her organisation supported Solar Sharer as an initiative to help soak up excess solar generation from the grid and save consumers money, the offer is complicated and would not benefit all consumers.
“The SSO remains a complex offer. Some customers who can shift load to the free daytime period day could be better off, but many households who can't do this may find the savings are limited or may actually pay more. It’s important to consider if it’s the right offer [for consumers] and [that they] speak to [their] retailer.”
Savage is urging electricity retailers to inform their customers of the Solar Sharer offer, and added that they are required to tell their customers at least once in every 100 days if there is a better plan on offer for them.
“Once new prices take effect in July, it will be worth exploring which retailers offer further discounts off the DMO or new energy plans that better suit individual circumstances,” she said.
“The new Solar Sharer Offer is an opportunity to make further savings if households can shift some of their electricity usage, such as washing machines, air conditioning, or electric vehicle charging, into the middle of the day,” she added.
This year’s DMO is based on a pricing methodology using only efficient costs, that include adjustments in assumptions between the draft and final prices. Network tariffs are now blended for consumers of flat rate retail tariffs, which the AER says better reflects the mix of consumers with or without smart meters.
Kinnear said the AEC is supportive of the new methodology. “The switch to a blended approach in the network cost methodology rather than simply applying the lowest possible network cost across the board is a more realistic reflection on the actual costs to retailers supplying electricity for all consumers.
“Increasing network costs have been the major change since the draft was released.”
But she cautioned that because the new methodology was a major change, it should be accompanied by a guideline released later in the year to provide more regulatory certainty to electricity retailers offering the prices to their customers.
The DMO prices are a reflection of the factors influencing electricity prices nationally, but only apply to consumers in three states that do not already have their own solar electricity and do not select a better offer from their retailer. Ten per cent or fewer consumers are on the DMO in the three states where it is offered.
Victoria sets its own Victorian Default Offer through its Essential Services Commission, and on Monday tabled final 2026-27 prices that will represent an average reduction of 5 per cent for residential customers and 6 per cent for small businesses.
DMO prices depend to a large extent on the location of the consumer and which network supplies the electricity. In 2026-27, they will comprise 30-41 per cent wholesale prices, 39-54 per cent network charges, with the rest made up of retail margins and the cost of complying with renewable energy certificate schemes.
[Default electricity prices]( [Clare Savage]( [Australian Energy Regulator](
* * *
[Kate Burgess]( is The Energy’s Senior Reporter. A financial journalist and editor with experience spanning 20 years and three continents, Kate was founding APAC editor of InfraLogic, an infrastructure newswire now part of ION Analytics. Most recently Kate launched climate and energy coverage at Capital Brief, and has also held reporting roles at The Australian Financial Review, BRW, ICIS Energy and property trade titles.
* * *
[ Energy ministers cook up smooth transition to new energy underwriting  ](
[ Subscribe to The Energy  ](
Copy URL Copy link to page Link copied!
[ Share on LinkedIn  ](
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
