Story's url: https://theenergy.co/article/energy-ministers-cook-up-smooth-transition-to-esem

[Capital]( [Energy Systems]( [Projects]( [Regulation]( newsMay 26 2026
Victorian Energy Minister Lily D’Ambrosio says the Electricity Services Entry Mechanism will click into gear "when the last CIS auction concludes” so that project developers won’t be left hanging
By [Ben Potter](
Project developers are looking to the ESEM to be ready once the Capacity Investment Scheme expires in 2028. Picture: Goyder wind farm in South Australia
State and federal energy and climate ministers are developing a mechanism for a seamless transition to the proposed Electricity Services Entry Mechanism (ESEM) to support long-term investment in generation from the current — and struggling — Capacity Investment Scheme.
Victorian Energy Minister Lily D’Ambrosio said on Tuesday the mechanism would click into gear “when the last CIS auction concludes” so that project developers won’t be left hanging without clarity about funding gaps and financial support.
“We cannot afford to have pauses in the industry's confidence and investment decisions about the pipeline of projects that we need to actually get built,” D’Ambrosio told the Clean Energy Council’s Australian Wind Industry Forum.
“So the clarity and the locking away of the ESEM mechanism is a really important thing to achieve next year.”
The ESEM — a system of long-term contracts underwritten by a federal agency to support investment in new bulk renewable energy, intra-day “shaping” energy such as storage and long term firming energy such as hydro and gas peaking — was devised by an independent panel headed by industry veteran Tim Nelson last year.
It will replace the CIS, which has underwritten 18 gigawatts of wind, solar and battery projects towards a 40GW target by 2028, but on such terms that just 6GW — across two wind and two solar projects — has achieved final investment decisions, CEC CEO Jacqui Trad told the forum.
The idea is that the ESEM will overcome this problem by providing targeted support for the latter years of a project in the form of contracts for years five to 15 of a project’s life. The Nelson review found commercial buyers such as large retailers favoured short-term contracts of two to three years over longer contracts, leaving developers facing a “tenor gap” that put off financiers.
D’Ambrosio faced off against Victorian opposition energy spokesman David Davis, who she said presented an “existential threat for the renewable energy industry and investor confidence in Victoria” that risked a repeat of the Coalition’s last term in government from 2010 to 2014 when no new wind or solar projects were approved.
Davis said the Coalition could win the election in November and backed the goal of replacing ageing coal-fired power stations such as Yallourn with renewables and “low emissions technology” and would hold a "short, sharp assessment" of the state's massively over budget transmission projects — Western Renewables Link and VNI West — and move quickly on.
Asked by Trad if a Coalition government could cause a sharp slowdown in renewables investment like that in Queensland under the Liberal-Nationals, Davis said he wasn’t going to answer for Queensland but “we will not let the grass grow on this”.
“We want to be very quick, and we want to do this independently, and we want to make that decision and move forward, because we know that low-emission technologies do need to be brought forward, and doing so requires certainty and security.”
Davis was critical of changes to environmental and planning approvals processes that the Allan government has brought in to speed things up and bring them in within 18 months — down from three to five years in some past contentious wind farm cases.
He said the Coalition agreed that speeding up planning was critical but “not at the expense of local communities” because “clobbering communities” and stripping their rights “has actually had a counterproductive effect.” A Coalition government would open up exploration of conventional gas resources in Victoria “more broadly” than the government and a proposed 2 kilometre “setback” for renewable energy projects would be ”rebuttable”.
D’Ambrosio agreed gas would have a critical role but it had become both expensive and scarce thanks to export projects and it was just as important to reduce reliance on gas because that saved households and businesses money on their bills.
Victoria’s revived State Electricity on Tuesday launched a platform — [Easy Electricity SEC]( — to help households switch from gas to electric appliances.
D'Ambrosio warned against resorting to “dumb politics” because “the only interest that that serves are people who don't want to save people money on their bills, but want to lock people into very expensive gas bills for decades to come — that doesn't serve Victoria's interests at all”.
In a subsequent panel, Peter Cowling, head of wind at Envision Australia, said Victoria’s transmission projects would unlock “enormous investment” in renewable generation which could “all go to NSW” if transmission was held up any longer.
[Capacity Investment Scheme]( [Decarbonisation]( [Energy ministers]( [Environmental planning]( [EPBC Act]( [Gas]( [NEM]( [Queensland policy]( [Social licence]( [Transmission]( [Wind power]( [Jackie Trad]( [Lily D'Ambrosio]( [David Davis]( [Clean Energy Council](
* * *
[Ben Potter]( is Contributing Editor at The Energy. He spent 27 years over two stints at The Australian Financial Review in Melbourne, most recently writing about energy and climate policy.
* * *
[ SEC lends clout to Vic gas switching goal  ](
[ Subscribe to The Energy  ](
Copy URL Copy link to page Link copied!
[ Share on LinkedIn  ](
