<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.dewr.gov.au/newsroom/articles/resources-enhance-rto-capability-supporting-vet-students-disability-and-mental-health

26 May 2026
We have released guidance materials to help registered training organisations (RTOs) support and respond to VET students who require additional support.
These resources are designed to assist building capability in small to medium RTOs, with the aim of helping to improve inclusivity in policy design and procedures for students with disability and to support student mental health. The resources include:
  * practical illustrations
  * other supporting resources.
You can access these resources on the [Resources for training providers]( web page.
=======
Story's url: https://theenergy.co/article/sec-lends-clout-to-vic-gas-switching-goal

[Capital]( [Energy Systems]( [People]( [Policy]( [Projects]( [Technology]( [Workforce]( newsMay 26 2026
'Easy Electric SEC' aims to overcome major obstacles to households switching from gas to electric appliances — complexity, trust and upfront costs
By [Ben Potter](
Victoria is seeking to reduce household use of gas as supply tightens up later this decade - Rawpixel
Victoria’s State Electricity Commission is throwing its weight behind the Allan government’s aggressive gas switching targets with a new web platform that designs and costs bespoke electrification plans and connects households with accredited installers.
The plan, unveiled Tuesday morning, is dubbed “Easy Electric SEC”. It aims to overcome major obstacles to households wanting to switch from traditional “dual fuel” appliance fleets to all-electric appliances — such as the complexity of decision making, low awareness and trust in retailers, and upfront costs — says SEC CEO Chris Miller.
At the same time, the revived state government business is discussing its next major energy infrastructure project — a “non-lithium” deep storage facility of at least eight hours’ duration — with several original equipment manufacturers. A joint development deal will be announced soon.
SEC is also in talks to develop Melbourne Renewable Energy Hub Stage 2 — which will have a medium to long duration storage duty — with David Russell’s Equis, developer of the 600 megawatt/1600 megawatt hour MREH Stage 1, which is part-owned by SEC.
And it’s on the verge of launching a retail offer to private commercial & industrial firms to complement its retail offer to Victorian state schools, train and tram operators, hospitals and other state-owned businesses, which has garnered 5 per cent of the Victorian retail energy market.
The ventures all fit the SEC’s mandate of accelerating the energy transition in Victoria and helping households switch from gas to electric appliances, Miller said.
He said Easy Electric SEC would build on the Victorian government’s existing SolarVic and Victorian Energy Upgrades services, which offer advice, rebates and interest free loans to households seeking to switch from gas to electric appliances to advance the government’s gas substitution targets.
“What we're doing is overlaying that and coordinating all the bits — the advice on the savings, the inclusion of various rebates, which could include Commonwealth rebates, not just Victorian ones — and specifically recommending specific installers that we've contracted,” Miller said.
Pilots run over the past two years with a “basic planner” found four main barriers to gas switching: ignorance of electrification and its benefits; the complexity of estimating cost savings, choosing installers and disconnecting from gas; upfront costs; and a lack of trust in incumbent retailers.
Easy Electric SEC comprises a more sophisticated version of the pilot planner, analysing information about a home, such as the number of occupants and bedrooms, gas and electricity bills, and objectives such as quickest payback or lowest-carbon footprint, recommending a course of action — such as installing a heat pump, insulation or rooftop solar and battery — and advising on upfront cost net of rebates and likely savings.
“And if the consumer likes that, then they can take that a step further and connect directly — just through the click of a button — with an SEC installer, and installers will go out and quote to do that job.
“What we're doing is bringing together the whole value chain for a consumer in a really simple way."
Miller said the SEC — as a government-owned, public purpose business entity with no vested interest in retail mass market energy — could hold itself out as an honest broker to help overcome the trust gap and other barriers.
“What consumers say to us is they don't generally trust anyone in the sector.“
The SEC was launched by Premier Jacinta Allan in October 2023 with $1 billion of capital, reviving the old SEC which was abandoned when the Kennett government privatised Victoria’s electricity industry in the 1990s. (On Saturday Allan announced the SEC would [employ 2000 electrical trades apprentices]( over the next four years.)
Its first deal was a [$245 million purchase of a stake in MREH Stage 1]( in November 2023, with full dispatch rights over the 200MW, 4 hour A3 unit (A1 and A2 are each 200 MW, two hour batteries).
The launch sparked controversy because it reversed a long-term retreat from state ownership of energy assets, and the C&I retail offering would encroach on the turf of private energy retailers, who argued it was bringing nothing new to their market.
Miller said the noise level had died down as the SEC built its project portfolio and got on with the job, and the SEC would fill a gap at the small end of the private C&I market for five to seven year power purchase agreements (PPAs).
He said the big end of town was well served by large retailers offering long term PPAs to de-risk their consumption, but “it's much harder for a mid-tier, smaller C&I customer to enter into a direct PPA” of five to seven years “where you can give a customer a level of price certainty and take that pressure off their business”.
“The second thing is through our products, which are being developed right now, we will be incentivising customers if they can to shift their demand” from high to low demand periods by offering more price blocks than the traditional peak and off-peak and “enable a sharing with us of the wholesale benefits that flow from that”. The SEC’s portfolio now includes the fully commissioned MREH Stage 1, the SEC Renewable Energy Park near Horsham in western Victoria (a 119MW solar farm coupled with a 100MW, two hour battery) due to be commissioned next year, and the 205MW Delburn Wind farm in the Latrobe Valley which is expected to be operational in 2028.
It also controls the output of five operating Victorian Renewable Energy Target projects and the Bulgana Green Power Hub under PPAs, which provide a ready made “synthetic” generation portfolio.
Miller said MREH Stage 1 — especially the SEC’s A3 — had played a key role in keeping Victoria’s wholesale electricity price spike at a manageable level during the record heatwave on 27 January. On that day temperatures soared past 40 degrees C and demand surged to its highest since 2009 — when there was much less rooftop solar and no household batteries.
“I think it peaked at around about $1,700 MWh — on a day which would have terrified AEMO five years ago,” he said. “It was a great proof point of the role of batteries," Miller said.
MREH Stage 1 also supplied enough energy to run 101,000 homes over all three summer months, with A3 shouldering much of the burden. It is one of a wave of big batteries that are starting to flatten the “duck curve” — the collapse in grid demand as rooftop solar kicks in each morning and subsequent reversal when the sun sinks — and shrinking the spread between negative daytime wholesale power prices and evening peaks.
Miller said the long duration battery project being discussed with OEMs working on different battery chemistries would meet a need identified by AEMO for storage of at least four to eight hours and up to 12 hours, which is not attracting viable proposals capable of final investment decisions in the next couple of years because “there is not yet a clear revenue signal”.
The SEC was leaning in to this “with the idea of getting into a joint development formally with an OEM, and we're not too far away”.
Chemistries under discussion would include some proprietary kit but could also require pipes, valves and tanks available locally. (This sounds like a vanadium or zinc bromine flow battery of which there are a handful of local developers or aspiring developers, but Miller wouldn’t confirm this).
[Batteries]( [BESS]( [Consumer energy resources]( [Decarbonisation]( [Distributed Energy Resources]( [Electrification]( [Energy markets]( [Energy prices]( [Energy storage]( [Government policy]( [Home battery]( [Politics]( [Power Purchase Agreements]( [Renewable Energy Target]( [Skills shortage]( [Solar]( [Vanadium]( [Wholesale prices]( [Chris Miller]( [SEC Victoria](
* * *
[Ben Potter]( is Contributing Editor at The Energy. He spent 27 years over two stints at The Australian Financial Review in Melbourne, most recently writing about energy and climate policy.
* * *
[ Lack of investor certainty drags renewables: CEC  ](
[ Subscribe to The Energy  ](
Copy URL Copy link to page Link copied!
[ Share on LinkedIn  ](
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
