<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.sustainability.vic.gov.au/news/news-articles/transferring-and-closed-programs

Published: 28 May 2026 
[ ](
In response to the [Independent Review of the Victorian Public Service led by Helen Silver AO]( the Victorian Government has determined that Sustainability Victoria will be abolished on 30 June 2026. 
As we wind down after two decades of action, we’re farewelling teams and providing information about which initiatives will continue. 
Please note that staff from closed programs have now left Sustainability Victoria. Enquiries can be directed to SV's customer service team: 
  * In Victoria: 
  * Outside Victoria: 
  * Email: 
Our customer service team has responded to thousands of the community’s most complicated sustainability enquiries for more than 20 years. SV’s customer service channels will remain open until 30 June 2026. 
These programs will continue at the [Department of Energy, Environment and Climate Action (DEECA)]( 
[Detox Your Home]( provides Victorians with a safe way to dispose of hazardous household chemicals. 
The program hosts free collection events, delivered in partnership with local councils across Victoria, to help reduce risks to human health and the environment. 
Register to 
Since launching in 2006, FirstRate5 has been used by builders and designers to generate energy ratings for homes, calculating heating and cooling requirements for new builds and renovations. 
FirstRate5 will continue to operate within DEECA’s Energy Group. 
Across more than 400 projects, SV’s industry and infrastructure work has seen over $93 million invested to increase the state’s recycling capacity and keep valuable resources in circulation. 
This included upgrades that raised Victoria’s cardboard recycling capacity by 40 per cent, and support for one of Australia’s largest PET recycling facilities – capable of processing up to 1 billion plastic bottles each year. 
Some components of the Industry and Infrastructure program will be transferred to DEECA to administer active funding agreements. For example, administration of grants under the [Recycling Modernisation Fund]( will be transferred to DEECA. 
Program information and grant applications will remain available while rounds are active and for the duration of funding obligations. 
This service supports businesses to [invest in Victoria’s circular economy]( by providing advice and project development support. 
Working across government and industry, the service connects investors with opportunities and partners to help bring circular economy projects to life. 
This program will continue at the Department of Energy, Environment and Climate Action. 
The [Markets Acceleration program]( transformed waste into useful products at scale – turning old tyres into speed humps and food scraps into compost. 
By supporting innovation and commercialisation, the program helped funnel recycled materials into major infrastructure projects and everyday products. 
Administration of grants under the Market Accelerator Fund will be transferred to DEECA. 
[ResourceSmart Schools]( is a free program that supports schools to embed sustainability across their curriculum and community. 
Through a structured framework, schools track their progress and work towards 5 Star certification while reducing emissions and building student capability. 
Sign up to the 
Since launching the historic 
From Victoria’s e-waste landfill ban to the introduction of kerbside organics bins, the campaigns team has helped Victorians adopt more sustainable behaviours. 
Visit the Department of Energy, Environment and Climate Action (DEECA) website and social media channels for future initiatives, including the [Small Acts, Big Impact]( campaign. 
The [Buy Circular Service]( supported councils to incorporate recycled materials into local projects. From roads and footpaths to parks and gardens – the program helped embed circular procurement through practical tools, supplier connections and expert support. 
Buy Circular’s online directory included more than 100 suppliers of recycled products and was supported by a network of 87 council champions. 
The program turned purchasing power into real-world demand for circular products, driving progress for Victoria’s circular economy. 
Elements of this program may continue within other Victorian Government departments. Any further updates will be published on the Sustainability Victoria website. 
Since opening in 2020, the [Circular Economy Business Innovation Centre]( (CEBIC) delivered funding, partnerships and advisory panels to support Victorian businesses to turn their circular ideas into commercial opportunities. 
From transforming food waste to finding smarter ways to keep materials out of landfill, across more than 50 projects, CEBIC helped avoid over 170,000 tonnes of waste, cut 260,000 tonnes of emissions, created 220 jobs and launched 140 new circular products and services – helping position Victoria as a leader in the circular economy. 
Sustainability Victoria’s [Learning Portal]( helped build the capability needed for Victoria’s transition to a circular economy – equipping learners across government, business and the community with the skills to turn circular ideas into action. 
More than 400 learners participated in the four courses on circularity, helping build the momentum needed to drive lasting change. 
Elements of this program may continue within other Victorian Government departments. 
The Major Events and Tourism program connected stakeholders with shared challenges, helping them to explore scalable reuse systems and hosting the first roundtable on reusables in Victoria. 
The program helped events like [the Australian Open]( embrace circular practices to reduce waste and make the industry more sustainable. 
The Regional Engagement team helped turn circular ideas into local action across Victoria. 
From hosting [workshops for regional communities]( to supporting circular economy projects, the team connected stakeholders to turn great ideas into infrastructure, jobs and long-term change across Victoria. 
The [SV Hub]( space hire service brought together sustainable organisations and individuals, sparking partnerships and nurturing innovation for almost 400 customers. 
SV Lab helped shape the decisions needed for Victoria’s transition to a circular economy – bringing together policy, research and behaviour change expertise to tackle issues like climate change and circular jobs. 
The lab spotted emerging issues, producing a body of trusted research that supported decision-making across government, industry and the community. 
We encourage stakeholders to download SV Lab resources from our website while they remain accessible. 
After 30 June 2026: 
[ Back to all news articles ](
=======
Story's url: https://theenergy.co/article/expensive-redundant-assets-syncon-scrutiny-as-transgrid-seeks-to-pass-on-400m-cost

[Capital]( [Energy Systems]( [Regulation]( newsMay 25 2026
The lack of transparency in fast tracking of synchronous condensers in NSW has consumer advocates looking to the regulator
By [Charis Palmer](
Synchronous condensers are in hot demand around the world - ANDRITZ
Consumer advocates have urged the Australian Energy Regulator to closely scrutinise monopoly network owner Transgrid’s proposal to pass onto consumers $400m of the more than $1.1 billion cost for synchronous condensers it says are needed for system strength in NSW.
The syncons — large rotating machines that provide grid stability and system strength services to complement the increase in renewables inherent to the energy transition — are not expected to be in service until 2029*. This is around 18 months earlier than was anticipated after the NSW Government [stepped in]( to make them a ‘Priority Network Infrastructure Project’.
Much of the billions of dollars of regulated investment slated for the grid in the next five years will go on syncons, which have been becoming harder to acquire due to [global competition.]( But there is a divergence of views on how essential they will be, and for how long, as technology evolves and coal plants are extended.
Consumer group the Justice and Equity Centre [warns]( those slated for Transgrid could become “an expensive redundant asset under regulatory arrangements that transfer that cost and risk in entirety to consumers”.
“Within a decade, the quantum and maturity of battery energy storage systems and other inverter-based resources will almost certainly render them the most effective option for new system security services,” Justice and Equity Centre program director for energy Douglas McCloskey wrote in the group’s submission.
“Indeed, it is possible - as with large thermal generators - that these services will be able to be procured almost as a byproduct of operation or with relatively trivial marginal cost. In JEC’s view, market-based measures will by then be a more effective and lower cost means of procuring (any amount of) system strength,” McCloskey added.
Energy economist Simon Orme, who has been [calling for]( changes to the national electricity rules to ensure they are not locked into “a synchronous governed grid paradigm”, said it appeared no consideration of alternative feasible power electronics solutions had been undertaken.
Transgrid has separately identified a portfolio of up to 5GW of grid-forming batteries for system strength by the early 2030s, but Orme said “power electronics HVDC-AC converters at scale are mature technologies that can replace the grid stability services currently supplied by synchronous generators.”
“The proposal is symptomatic of technology lock-in under the present rules,” Orme told  _The Energy._
A spokesperson for Transgrid* said the company had assessed more than 100 individual network and non-network solutions over a three-year process, and while emerging technologies such as grid-forming batteries were promising, "AEMO and independent advice to Transgrid concluded that grid-forming batteries are not yet credible to provide protection quality levels of fault current needed to meet minimum system strength requirements in the NEM."
"Synchronous condensers are the only proven, scalable solution currently able to contribute to the minimum level of system strength (fault current)."
The System Strength Project under consideration by the regulator is being viewed as precedent-setting for governance.
The Justice and Equity Centre says the interaction of regulatory regimes at the NSW and NEM level have allowed “scope for apparent regulatory ‘cherry-picking’, where robust requirements of one regime – such as transparent processes to assess and identify need and the most efficient response to it – are undermined, or can be circumvented by pursuing action under the other”. It says this does not serve the interests of NSW consumers.
A consumer challenge panel is advising the regulator on whether the long-term interests of consumers are being appropriately considered in the regulatory proposals and the AER’s decision making. Leader Helen Bartley’s [advice]( to the AER was that while Transgrid’s engagement has improved over time “these improvements occurred after key decisions had effectively been settled and did not address concerns about transparency, consideration of alternatives to the SSP project, or alignment of the project with consumer preferences.”
As a result, she said, any confidence that the proposal reflects the long-term interests of consumers is reduced, increasing reliance on the AER’s scrutiny.
Bartley also pointed to key negotiations with the NSW energy minister occurring “behind closed doors, undermining confidence in the integrity of engagement outcomes”.
“Given consumers are expected to fund the enormous capital investments required for the energy transition, greater transparency is required by all parties, including government, regulators and the energy industry itself,” Bartley added.
_*This article was updated after initial publication to include Transgrid's response. Transgrid advised its accelerated synchronous condensers would be operational by February 2029_
[System security]( [Transgrid]( [Australian Energy Regulator](
* * *
[Charis Palmer]( is Editor-in-Chief at The Energy. Charis has spent her journalism and publishing career in specialist media and startups focused on breaking down complex information for general and business audiences. She founded Banking Review Media, a subscription publication for bankers, and later served as editor of Business Spectator, Chief of Staff at The Conversation and CEO of Schwartz Pro and Australian Energy Daily.
* * *
[ Australians ready to bypass solar and battery barriers  ](
[ Subscribe to The Energy  ](
Copy URL Copy link to page Link copied!
[ Share on LinkedIn  ](
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
