The new Great Northern Highway Lumsden Interchange at Port Hedland in Western Australia's central north coast is complete, laying the foundation for Pilbara Ports' new Lumsden Point development. 
The new Great Northern Highway Lumsden Interchange at Port Hedland in Western Australia's central north coast is complete, laying the foundation for Pilbara Ports' new Lumsden Point development.
The southern approach road to the Port Hedland township now features a four-way interchange including a large-scale roundabout underpass, two flyover bridges, and four new access ramps.
These upgrades provide safer access on and off Great Northern Highway, particularly for oversize and over mass vehicles, with the addition of new turning pockets for the Lumsden Point port.
Due to begin operations in mid-2026, the Lumsden Point development will be critical to diversifying trade, supporting growth, and creating new import and export pathways.
The multi-user facility and logistics hub will support the rapid growth of direct shipping services to the Pilbara, aid the export of critical minerals, and the import of renewable energy infrastructure, including wind turbines and blades.
This port expansion will help to position Port Hedland at the forefront of future green industries, helping drive WA's transition to renewables, unlocking trade and investment opportunities and creating hundreds of new jobs.
The new four-way interchange will significantly improve traffic flow and help reduce congestion, enhancing acceleration opportunities and ensuring better visibility for all road users.
Located at the Great Northern Highway, Pinga Street, and Bunarrah Drive (Lumsden Point access road) intersection, the interchange will bolster WA and the Pilbara as a world-class exporter of battery metals and minerals, as well as importer of clean energy infrastructure.
In February 2024, the Australian and WA governments finalised a $140 million agreement to build the Pilbara Hydrogen Hub.
As the first hydrogen hub in regional WA, the hub will house the Clean Energy Training and Research Institute, prioritise the development of shared infrastructure, and drive future expansion initiatives to support the growth of hydrogen opportunities in the Pilbara region and support the State's economy.
The efficient import of renewable energy components is essential to the development of WA's renewable energy industry and achieving net zero goals.
In addition to providing funding towards the Pilbara Hydrogen Hub, the Australian Government is contributing $565 million towards common user port upgrades at Lumsden Point and the Port of Dampier.
**Quotes attributable to WA Premier Roger Cook:**
"I want Western Australia to become a renewable energy powerhouse, which is why my government is investing in the infrastructure the Pilbara needs to help diversify our nation-leading economy.
"The completion of this interchange is key to the delivery of Lumsden Point, which will support the Pilbara's role in facilitating emerging industries key to WA's future."
**Quotes attributable to Federal Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development and Local Government Minister Catherine King:**
"The Pilbara's global appeal is growing, and these upgrades ensure it remains a destination for international investment and innovation.
"This investment strengthens Australia's position as a world leader in renewable energy, while unlocking new trade routes and reducing transport emissions."
**Quotes attributable to WA Transport Minister Rita Saffioti:**
"Our government is continuing to invest in the economic infrastructure the Pilbara needs to power the nation. 
"These upgrades will not only streamline efficiency across this critical industrial area but will improve safety for all road users travelling in and out of Port Hedland. 
"Lumsden Point will play a critical role in WA's clean energy future, supporting more direct shipping to the Pilbara and export opportunities for our State."
**Quotes attributable to WA Regional Development and Ports Minister Stephen Dawson:**
"The Cook Government's investment in common user port upgrades in the Pilbara will help unlock trade and investment opportunities and support a future made in Western Australia.
"Direct shipping to the Pilbara means fewer emissions, faster delivery, and a more sustainable future for WA's economy."
**Quotes** **attributable to WA Energy and Decarbonisation and Pilbara Minister Amber-Jade Sanderson:**
"The Lumsden Point upgrades will play a major role in the Pilbara Energy Transition as an entry point for the renewable energy infrastructure required for the decarbonisation of this economically significant region."
**Quotes attributable to Senator for Western Australia Glenn Sterle:**
"As someone who has spent years behind the wheel, including a lot of time on the roads in and out of Port Hedland, the Lumsden Interchange is a massive win for safety and efficiency that will deliver a smoother, faster journey for the freight that keeps our nation moving.
"This project demonstrates the Australian Government's commitment to fixing regional infrastructure, improving road safety, and fostering WA's economic potential."
**Quotes attributable to Pilbara MLA Kevin Michel:**
"Through Lumsden Point, Port Hedland is set to lead the growth of green industries and accelerate Western Australia's clean energy future.
"Projects like these are a huge investment in the Pilbara's future, with this infrastructure to support local jobs and communities for years to come."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
6 March 2026 
Ministers
Premier; Minister for State Development; Trade and Investment; Economic Diversification 
Deputy Premier; Treasurer; Minister for Transport; Sport and Recreation 
Minister for Regional Development; Ports; Science and Innovation; Medical Research; Kimberley 
Minister for Energy and Decarbonisation; Manufacturing; Skills and TAFE; Pilbara 
[See all media statements from this Government](
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](
