Story's url: https://theenergy.co/article/electric-vehicle-charging-fight-opens-door-to-contestability-in-victoria

[Energy Systems]( [Policy]( newsJune 2 2026
Victorian parliamentary committee recommends measures designed to streamline the slow rollout of EV charging infrastructure
By [Charis Palmer](
Most people charge their EVs at home, but a lack of public charging infrastructure is holding back uptake - Lofthouse Construction Group
Contestable network connections and forcing networks to provide fine-grained capacity data are among the 40 [recommendations]( of a Victorian parliamentary inquiry into electric supply for electric vehicles.
Victoria’s Economy and Infrastructure Committee has been looking into how the state can best harmonise EVs with electricity supply and demand, including strategies to optimise EV charging to support the grid.
It has also been hearing from stakeholders on the best role for electricity distribution businesses in rolling out EV charging infrastructure, and how distribution network tariffs should be set for EV chargers.
“The committee also saw great opportunities to enhance the electricity grid through bidirectional charging, as electric vehicles are energy storage systems on wheels,” Economy and Infrastructure Committee Chair and Animal Justice Party MP Georgie Purcell told Parliament.
“In addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, electric vehicles have the potential to not only greatly reduce the cost of personal and commercial transport but also the cost of energy in the home and in businesses,” Purcell said.
The committee found the current rollout of EV charging infrastructure is restricting consumer confidence and resulting in slower EV uptake rates in Victoria. It comes amid a consumer rush to EVs in the wake of the fuel crisis that now sees around one in every six cars sold being fully electric.
Nexa Advisory CEO Stephanie Bashir welcomed the recommendations and said she hoped the Victorian government followed through on them. Bashir is behind a [rule change request]( supported by the Australian Energy Council aimed at reinforcing ring-fencing to prevent networks expanding into competitive markets, including EV charging infrastructure.
Network own**er** CitiPower, Powercor and United Energy (CPU) last year received a ring-fencing waiver from the Australian Energy Regulator to allow it to trial 100 pole-mounted EV chargers across Melbourne's distribution network. The report recommended the Victorian government monitor the waiver “to ensure that competitive neutrality is maintained and that it advises the AER on any identified barriers to the private sector”.
“T he DNSPs are supposed to be enablers, but right now they're the biggest barrier,” Bashir said.
During the inquiry, the committee heard several [complaints]( from EV charging providers and others about the lengthy and costly process of securing power supply from distributors.
CPU’s Head of Connections Dan Bye said "We welcome the committee’s report and opportunity to present on the facts about our kerbside charger trial and how we manage the network more broadly."
He said the network was working with 24 Victorian councils to deliver the pole-mounted electric vehicle charger trial.
"We’ve installed eight chargers on power poles in Melbourne’s inner suburbs and are rolling out another 92 chargers in regional and suburban areas."
From July 1 the Australian Energy Regulator will be able to resolve disputes over facilities access agreements, make binding determinations about pricing and ensure negotiations between infrastructure providers and networks are “conducted on fair, reasonable and cost-reflective terms”.
The committee also found current network data is insufficient for mapping possible sites to install EV charging infrastructure as it does not go down to the low-voltage level.
Bashir said this would be one of the “key unblockers”.
“If we have visibility at the low-voltage level into capacity constraints, as well as what networks plan to spend as regulated monopolies on poles-and-wires upgrades and augmentation, that unlocks significant opportunities for innovation in non-network solutions.
“And it’s not just about EV charging. A range of non-network solutions could deliver substantial benefits to networks. More importantly, we need to address the fact that network costs continue to rise despite networks being underutilised.”
CPU [told]( the inquiry getting more dynamic network pricing was a plan for the “long-term future” and something the entire industry was working on.
Bye said "We welcome recommendations to establish nation-leading data visibility processes and work is already underway to deliver our proposal, which the Australian Energy Regulator approved in April."
At the same time, the Victorian government is also [threatening]( to regulate a new tariff framework for EV charging if the AER fails to do so.
The committee found current network tariff structures do not reward or encourage EV charging behaviour that supports the grid and recommended the government work with industry to reform tariffs to enable the use of cheap daytime power.
Bye pointed the new CPU tariffs, including a 1c kWh daytime network charge coming from July 1, "to encourage customers to use electricity during the day when solar is most available, and encourages solar exports at times that help the network."
"We are also introducing new tariffs to support initiatives such as kerbside electric vehicle charging."
Looking beyond consumer vehicles, the committee found heavy electric trucks were currently prohibited from operating overnight despite their reduced sound emissions. It recommended the government commission a trial to understand the effects of doing so.
Other recommendations from the committee include:
  * That the Victorian Government develop a contestable works framework for connection services in Victoria
  * Funding trials, demonstrations and research into V2G and other bidirectional charging technologies
  * Providing information to consumers and the car industry about charging behaviours that align with electricity system needs
  * Set charging network coverage targets
_This article was updated after publication to include comments from CPU._
[Electric Vehicles]( [electric truck]( [Energy networks]( [Stephanie Bashir](
* * *
[Charis Palmer]( is Editor-in-Chief at The Energy. Charis has spent her journalism and publishing career in specialist media and startups focused on breaking down complex information for general and business audiences. She founded Banking Review Media, a subscription publication for bankers, and later served as editor of Business Spectator, Chief of Staff at The Conversation and CEO of Schwartz Pro and Australian Energy Daily.
* * *
[ Rethink gas use with biogas and hydrogen: Grattan  ](
[ Subscribe to The Energy  ](
Copy URL Copy link to page Link copied!
[ Share on LinkedIn  ](
