Story's url: https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/leading-manufacturer-turns-heat-victoria

Published: 
     Saturday 30 May 2026 at 12:00 pm
A leading manufacturer is expanding its local operations in another big vote of confidence for Victoria.
Minister Brooks today visited Rinnai Australia’s Braeside facility which is increasing its capacity to develop new heating, cooling and hot water technologies.
The move will secure 110 jobs and many more across the supply chain.
It’s backed by the Allan Labor Government’s Victorian Investment Fund.
Rinnai employs 442 people across its three Victorian sites.
It’s one of Australia’s biggest heating, cooling and hot water appliance manufacturers, selling locally and overseas.
The expansion will increase the design and manufacturing of energy-efficient appliances, including heat pump technologies for heating, cooling and hot water, helping support Victoria’s transition to clean energy.
Rinnai also took part in our Digital Jobs Program to ensure its workforce could build digital and AI skills.
Victoria has the largest manufacturing workforce in Australia, employing more than 260,000 people.
The _Victorian Industry Policy_ and the $150 million _Victorian Investment Fund_ are driving jobs and the economy by securing investment in targeted areas like advanced machinery manufacturing.
While Labor supports industry and jobs, Jess Wilson’s Liberals have no plan and no vision, other than $40 billion in cuts.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Industry and Advanced Manufacturing Colin Brooks**
_“The expansion of Rinnai Australia is a win for local jobs and manufacturing in Victoria._
_“We are backing local manufacturers and industry, because they drive the economy.”_
**Quotes attributable to Member of Mordialloc Tim Richardson**
_**“** This is another show of confidence in our local manufacturing sector. Importantly it secures local jobs and supports other businesses along the supply chain.”_
**Quote attributable to Rinnai Australia Managing Director Lucas Van Raay**
_“Our recent multi-million-dollar investment in Victorian R &D, manufacturing and logistics facilities, with recognition and support from the Victorian Government, further cements Rinnai Australia as a pre-eminent local employer and manufacturer of world-class heating, cooling and water heating solutions across household, commercial and industrial markets in Australia and overseas.”_
[ 260530 - Leading Manufacturer Turns Up The Heat In Victoria.pdf PDF 244.33 KB (opens in a new window) ](
Industry and Advanced Manufacturing
