Story's url: https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/latest-news/2026/april/more-life-saving-community-aeds-rolling-out

30 April 2026 
Bridget Archer, Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing 
The Tasmanian Government is delivering life-saving Automatic External Defibrillators (AED) across the State with another 90 being installed in communities.   
This is the second instalment of the Government’s $500,000 Community AED Fund, with a total of 180 free AEDs delivered over two years.
Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing, Bridget Archer, said cardiac arrest can happen anywhere, at any time and survival often depends on what happens in the first few minutes.  
“Our investment is increasing access to defibrillators in everyday community settings, which can be vitally important for someone having a cardiac arrest,” Minister Archer said.  
“These 90 new devices mean more Tasmanian communities are prepared to act quickly and confidently in a cardiac emergency.  
“The successful recipients are located right across Tasmania, with a strong focus on rural, regional and remote areas.  
“AEDs are being installed in publicly accessible locations ranging from community halls and sporting clubs to Councils, local businesses, and other neighbourhood facilities.  
“This program is another example of our Government delivering the things that matter to Tasmanians, by building a strong and caring community."  
Once installed and registered, each AED becomes visible through the GoodSAM Responder smartphone app.  
The app uses GPS to show the location of nearby defibrillators and alerts registered responders, while also allowing Ambulance Tasmania’s Triple Zero (000) call takers to guide bystanders to the closest AED during an emergency.
AEDs are simple to use and require no prior training, with step by step audio instructions that guide users through the process.  
Tasmania now has more than 1,300 publicly accessible AEDs registered state-wide.  
“By working with communities to place AEDs where people live, work, and gather, we are helping to provide opportunities to save a life,” Minister Archer said.  
“This investment is about prevention, preparedness, and partnership to keep hearts beating across our State.”  
The Tasmanian Government has delivered more than 540 free devices across the State since 2014.  
For more information about publicly accessible AEDs in Tasmania, visit:
<
[ More Media Releases from Bridget Archer ](
