Story's url: https://www.statedevelopment.qld.gov.au/news-and-events/victoria-park-is-moving-forward-and-its-about-so-much-more-than-a-stadium

Read time: 3 minutes
  * ## Share:
  * 
  * ## Subscribe:
  * brisbane2032
The next chapter is officially underway at Victoria Park, with initial works beginning on the new Brisbane Stadium. The surrounding precinct is also starting to take shape, with planning and design underway.
The new [Brisbane Stadium]( won't just host the 2032 Olympic and Paralympic Games, it will also become the home ground of AFL’s Brisbane Lions and cricket’s Queensland Bulls and Brisbane Heat, as well as hosting tests, one-dayers and T20 matches With a concert capacity of 70,000 the new Brisbane Stadium will also attract blockbuster concerts and events to the city.
However, the new stadium is just a part of the Victoria Park master plan that is creating a precinct that the community can use every day—for recreation, celebration, sport and major events—long after the Games are over.
This master plan is designed to deliver lasting value for Brisbane, with facilities and public areas that will continue to serve the city for decades.
Victoria Park is a key part of Queensland's [plan to deliver the Games]( but it’s not the only part.
From new transport connections to more housing and better community facilities, Queensland is delivering the largest infrastructure program in the state’s history, designed to benefit people long after the closing ceremony.
While starting works in Victoria Park is an important milestone for Brisbane, a statewide plan will ensure every part of Queensland shares in the benefits of the Games, not just host venues.
From the Gold Coast to Cairns, and across key regional centres, projects are helping to:
  * improve transport networks that make it easier to get around
  * support more housing for growing communities
  * upgrade local facilities for sport, events and everyday use
  * create jobs and economic opportunities close to home
  * increase tourism and global recognition
  * create places where people want to live, work and spend time.
Most importantly, they’re building stronger communities, more opportunities and a legacy that future generations of Queenslanders will benefit from.
The Victoria Park precinct is being planned as a place for everyone, not just for sport, and not just for 2032.
It’s about creating:
  * a world-class 63-000 seat stadium that can host major sporting and entertainment events
  * a National Aquatic Centre
  * green, open spaces for the community to enjoy
  * better connections to the city and surrounding neighbourhoods
  * a vibrant destination that attracts visitors and supports local businesses.
Even as early works begin, the popular Pump Track, York’s Hollow North Brisbane Bikeway and some greenspace will remain open to the public.
This is infrastructure designed with long-term use in mind and built for concerts, community events, sport, and everyday life.
For locals, this means a precinct that becomes part of everyday life—a place to gather, relax, celebrate, and connect.
For Queensland, it means making the most of a once-in-a-generation opportunity to invest in infrastructure that improves how we live.
And for all of us, it’s proof that the Delivering 2032 Plan is in motion.
This isn’t just about hosting the Games, it’s about delivering something lasting—for our communities, our state, and our future.
[Subscribe]( to our newsletter to stay informed, including the upcoming consultation on the Victoria Park Precinct.
[ Subscribe here ](
  * ## Share:
  * 
  * ## Subscribe:
Last updated: 02 Jun 2026 
[TOP ](
