Story's url: https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/labor-supporting-lgbtiqa-victorians

Published: 
     Thursday 7 May 2026 at 12:00 pm
The Allan Labor Government has awarded a record fourteen organisations supporting LGBTIQA+ Victorians with a $1.6 million investment to strengthen and expand services across Victoria.
Minister for Equality Vicki Ward said the organisations would receive between $100,000 and $150,000 as part of the LGBTIQA+ Sector Strengthening (LSS) grants program to strengthen or expand their services in the below Local Government Area’s:
  * Metropolitan LGAs – Melbourne, Port Phillip, Yarra and Merri-bek
  * Regional LGAs – Baw Baw, Horsham, Mildura, Swan Hill, Wodonga, Wangaratta, Greater Bendigo, Ballarat and Greater Geelong
Of these, Transgender Victoria is funded to deliver its Mobile Affirmation Station to travel across regional Victoria providing non-medical gender affirmation as well as one-to-one peer navigation.
InterAction for Health and Human Rights (InterAction) will expand its Intersex Peer Support Australia program's reach into rural and regional areas of the state for the first time.
The organisation will also support and strengthen Victoria's intersex peer support volunteers and increase the capacity and understanding of partner organisations to improve service provision and referrals.
LINE Wangaratta will further develop its Pride Hub space and services to meet community need. The project will deliver inclusive community connection activities and support their workforce and volunteers.
The grants bolster equitable, inclusive and accessible services that contribute to safer and stronger communities.
The LSS grants program, now in its third year, continues to support the important work of organisations delivering vital services to Victoria’s rainbow communities.
The LSS grants program is part of the Victorian Government’s broader efforts to drive equality in Victoria, a vision outlined in _Pride in our future: Victoria’s LGBTIQA+ strategy 2022-32_.
For more information on recipients, visit [vic.gov.au/successful-recipients-lgbtiqa-sector-strengthening-program.](
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Equality Vicki Ward**
_“Only Labor stands for fairness and believes that equality is not negotiable. These grants are vital in strengthening LGTBIQA+ organisations and help build a Victoria where everyone belongs and feels respected.”_
_"It is vital that we support and strengthen organisations working to meet the needs of our diverse LGBTIQA+ communities right across the state – and this year’s funding will do just that.”_
[ 260507 - Labor Is Supporting LGBTIQA+ Victorians.pdf PDF 266.33 KB (opens in a new window) ](
Equality
