Story's url: https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/spectacular-melbourne-show-honour-living-legend

Published: 
     Friday 29 May 2026 at 11:30 am
There will be no sitting in silence at Rod Laver Arena this September, when a star-studded lineup of some of the world’s best performers honour Australian singer and living legend, John Farnham.
Performers including Jimmy Barnes, Keith Urban, Ross Wilson and Richard Marx will perform some of Farnham’s most popular classics live on stage on Sunday, 20 September.
The epic line up also includes guest performances by Celine Dion and Hugh Jackman, who will perform via satellite from Paris and Los Angeles respectively.
Jessica Mauboy, Jon Stevens, Mitch Tambo, Diesel and Human Nature will also perform.
The event is being delivered in partnership with Head & Neck Cancer Australia, a cause close to Farnham’s heart after being diagnosed with oral cancer in August 2022.
Farnham is one of the most popular performers to ever play at Melbourne Park.
He starred in 94 shows at venues across the precinct throughout his career – attracting a total of more than 1 million fans.
The world-class production will also include a 38-piece orchestra and 16-piece choir celebrating Farnham’s iconic catalogue.   
The event will have a special focus on Whispering Jack to mark the album’s 40th anniversary.
It adds to a huge pipeline of events across the state, including the _Melbourne Winter Masterpieces: Cartier_ exhibition at NGV, AFL Finals Series, the historic NFL Melbourne Game and Rory McIlroy’s return at the Australian Open golf.
The record-breaking $46.7 billion Victorian visitor economy supports more than 288,000 jobs in the sector across the state.
Tickets go on sale on Tuesday, 2June 2026 through Ticketek.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Sport and Major Events Steve Dimopoulos**
_“This is going to be an unforgettable night, with stars from around the world paying tribute to an Australian living legend.”_
_“These will be the hottest tickets in town, and the show will be another big boost for our $46.7 billion visitor economy.”_
**Quotes attributable to Visit Victoria CEO Brendan McClements**
_“Live music is a key part of Melbourne’s identity and we can’t wait to celebrate the life and back catalogue of one of Australia’s most beloved artists.”_
_“Exclusive live experiences like this strengthen Victoria’s appeal and help drive repeat visitation.”_
**Quotes attributable to John Farnham**
_“I’ve been incredibly lucky to spend my life doing what I love, and even luckier to have Australians embrace my music the way they have.”_
_“This night isn’t about me – it’s about giving something back and supporting a cause that means a great deal to me. The fact that so many extraordinary artists from around the world have so generously agreed to be part of this night is incredibly humbling and says far more about the spirit behind this event than it does about me.”_
**Quotes attributable to Paul Dainty AO**
_“In 2020, we produced Firefight — a charity concert that brought 70,000 people together in Sydney at one of the most emotional moments in Australian history. John took the stage that night and delivered what would become his final live performance, closing the show with You're The Voice – the audience response was electric and a goosebump moment._
_“It was his gift to the firefighters, to bushfire relief and to all of us. This night at Rod Laver Arena will give every person in the room the same goosebumps. Now it's our turn to give back to John.”_
**Quote attributable to Melbourne Park CEO, John Harden**
_“With 94 shows and more than 1 million fans, John Farnham’s legacy at Melbourne Park is undeniable. We are proud to support this event, celebrating John’s enduring influence on both the global music landscape and at Melbourne Park, Australia’s home of live events.”_
[ 260529 - Spectacular Melbourne Show To Honour Living Legend.pdf PDF 272.68 KB (opens in a new window) ](
Tourism and Major Events
