Story's url: https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/latest-news/2026/april/works-underway-on-kings-meadows-community-health-centre-redevelopment

27 April 2026 
, 
Bridget Archer, Minister for Health and Mental Health and Wellbeing, 
Works to build the new Renal Health Unit at the Kings Meadows Community Health Centre are underway, with the demolition of the original Joan Marshall building now complete.   
The main works, which are being delivered by Shape Australia, began on site in early January.   
Construction of the new renal unit is expected to be complete by the end of the year, with renal dialysis services to commence from the new facility shortly after.  
The Australian Government has provided $10 million towards the Kings Meadows Community Health Centre redevelopment through the Community Health and Hospitals Program.  
The design has been shaped by consultation with staff, consumers and their carers, as well as a Consumer Advisory Group.  
The Community Health Centre adjacent to the construction site will continue to deliver allied health services as well as renal dialysis until the new unit is complete.   
The Department of Health will continue to keep stakeholders and the community informed as the redevelopment progresses.   
Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing, Bridget Archer, said the redevelopment will transform the delivery of renal health services for the community from a stand-alone purpose-built unit.   
“The Renal Health Unit will feature light filled spaces, dedicated staff spaces, and views out into soft landscapes, along with access to the main Community Health Centre,” Minister Archer said.  
“The new unit will increase the service from 15 to 18 treatment bays to respond to demand for renal dialysis services in Northern Tasmania, and will continue to honour the legacy of Joan Marshall, with the building name being retained as part of the redevelopment.  
“This Liberal Government is delivering for Tasmanians, ensuring our community can access the right care, in the right place, at the right time.”
Quotes attributable to Federal Member for Bass, Jess Teesdale:   
“This new Renal Health Unit at Kings Meadows is a game-changer for Northern Tasmania, giving patients access to life-saving dialysis closer to home in a modern, purpose-built facility.   
“The Australian Government’s $10 million investment shows what can be achieved when governments, health providers, and the community work together."
[ More Media Releases from ](
