<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/latest-news/2026/may/progressing-our-commitment-to-expand-the-launceston-general-hospital-ed

29 May 2026 
Bridget Archer, Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing 
A $53.5 million upgrade and expansion of the Launceston General Hospital (LGH) Emergency Department (ED) has reached an important milestone, with the release of a concept design and the submission of a Development Application for the project.  
Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing, Bridget Archer, said this will be the single biggest renovation of the Emergency Department since it was built in 1981, and would nearly double the size of the ED.  
“The LGH ED Expansion will significantly increase the hospital’s emergency care capacity and deliver upgraded health services for Launceston and the surrounding areas,” Minister Archer said.   
“It will deliver a new main entrance, reception area, triage spaces and administration areas, alongside larger and upgraded waiting areas designed to improve comfort, accessibility and patient flow.  
“The expanded ED will also support faster triage, improved treatment areas and a more efficient experience for patients, staff and visitors.  
“Importantly, this will increase the hospital’s capacity to help respond to demand for emergency care services, while also delivering high-quality and modern facilities for both staff and patients.”  
A concept design has been developed following extensive engagement with clinical staff, service teams and consumer representatives.   
“This significant upgrade is part of the Tasmanian Government’s 10-year plan to improve the Launceston General Hospital precinct,” Minister Archer said.  
“It’s another important part of our ongoing commitment to upgrade our hospitals to ensure Tasmanians receive the right care, when and where they need it.”  
Subject to obtaining the necessary approvals, construction is planned to commence in 2028 and be completed in mid-2029.  
The concept design is now available to view on the Department of Health website: [
[ More Media Releases from Bridget Archer ](
=======
Story's url: https://minister.dcceew.gov.au/bowen/media-releases/government-maintains-fuel-security

30 May 2026
The Albanese Government will maintain maximum flexibility in the domestic fuel market, by extending the temporary relaxation of the baseline Minimum Stockholding Obligation for petrol and diesel for a further three months.
This precautionary action will continue to allow suppliers to hold 20 per cent less diesel and petrol in reserve if they commit to delivering more fuel into the domestic market and regional supply until 30 September 2026. 
These are the stocks of fuel held in Australia, which must be maintained each week by bulk importers and refineries.
Australia’s domestic reserves have hit record levels in recent weeks, as fuel continues to arrive as expected and demand returns to normal levels. Fuel secured through Export Finance Australia is adding a further buffer to our fuel security. 
Since March, the temporary reduction has been critical in addressing supply chain crunches cause by unprecedented demand, especially in regional Australia. This measure provides ongoing flexibility for industry to respond quickly in the event of another significant spike in demand.
Our healthy domestic stockholdings have given Government confidence that a three-month extension strikes the right balance of keeping fuel reserves in good supply, while maintaining flexibility in the local market should global fuel market conditions deteriorate. 
We continue to see expected ships arrive in our ports but the ongoing closure of the Strait of Hormuz continues to disrupt global fuel markets and those impacts are flowing through to Australia, in higher prices and some supply uncertainty.
Even once shipping resumes, the return to normal of the global flow of fuels and goods will take months. 
Building on the original reduction, companies will only be allowed to continue to relax their storage obligations if they provide and implement a new written plan which demonstrates:
  * They will continue to work closely with the Commonwealth, States and Territories to prioritise and facilitate supply to regional, agricultural or maritime consumers who could face shortages of supply;
  * They will continue reasonable supply to regional distributors and wholesale spot markets (noting these were vulnerable to supply chain disruptions when the crisis started);
  * They will respond to any unusual surges in demand to assist in preventing disruptions to supply and provide prompt notice of any such disruptions (new requirements for this extension).
The Government has notified states and territories of this extension.
The conflict in the Middle East is having a substantial impact on Australian motorists and businesses and we’re taking decisive action to address this issue.
Australia remains at level 2 of the national fuel security plan with a current fuel outlook that is secure.
Our work to secure more fuel and build resilience in our fuel sector is already making a meaningful difference. We will continue to respond to this global crisis in Australia’s best interest. 
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
