<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/latest-news/2026/may/strengthening-our-responses-to-family-violence

28 May 2026 
Guy Barnett, Attorney-General 
Jane Howlett, Minister for Women and the Prevention of Family Violence 
The Tasmanian Government is delivering on an election commitment to strengthen family violence protections, with first tranche of reforms announced today.
Attorney General, Guy Barnett, said the Government has a strong agenda to keep victim-survivors safe and ensuring perpetrators are held to account.
“Our Government is committed to actions that prevent and end family violence and support and empower those who are experiencing it,” the Attorney said.
“We released the ‘Strengthening our Responses to Family Violence in Tasmania: Family Violence Act 2004 and Related Legislation Discussion Paper’ for targeted and public consultation, which closed in April this year.
“The Discussion Paper’s release was an important part of the Government’s commitment to continuously evaluate and improve responses to family violence. It started a community-wide conversation about where further action should be taken.
“The first tranche of changes includes nation-leading reforms, showing our Government’s steadfast commitment to tackling family violence.
“We will be modernising the offence of economic and emotional abuse to more effectively capture the patterns and behaviours associated with coercive control, alongside extending the statutory limitation period.
“We will also be working to establish a family violence offender levy, which will be paid by family violence offenders and see funds directed to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Fund to support victim-survivors.
“This nation-first levy recognises that not only are there massive human costs for victim-survivors, but there are often financial costs for those fleeing family violence.
“The initial changes are practical changes we can deliver now to strengthen the legislative response to family violence.”
The proposed reforms will:
  * Clarify the Family Violence Act 2004 to more effectively capture the patterns of behaviours in the coercive control provisions;
  * Extend the statutory limitation period for the coercive control provisions to two years - because many victim-survivors find it difficult to report within the current one year statutory timeframe;
  * Encourage the reporting of family violence by extending the reporting protections under the Family Violence Act so people who report any type of family violence to police will be protected from civil or criminal liability;
  * Improve protections for victim-survivors living in rental properties by amending the definition of family violence in the Family Violence Act to ensure the behaviour of perpetrators damaging rental properties and other objects owned by victim-survivors counts as family violence;
  * Improve the operation of the Serial Family Violence Perpetrator declarations in the Family Violence Act by allowing courts to vary or extend declarations, rather than having to issue multiple declarations;
  * Strengthen criminal law responses by clarifying the strangulation offence in the Criminal Code Act 1924 by defining key terms and including a recklessness element. A new mirror summary offence will also be introduced to the Police Offences Act 1935 to ensure less severe examples of this conduct is correctly identified and recorded;
  * Extend the ‘Failure to report offence’, under section 105A of the Criminal Code, for persons who fail to report the abuse of a child, where the person knows or believes on reasonable grounds a child has been strangled;
  * Expand the existing provisions regarding jury directions in the Criminal Code to clarify how and when judges are to direct juries about common reactions to family violence offending in matters involving family violence offences; and
  * Amend the Victims of Crime Compensation Act 1994 to establish a new family violence offender levy to be paid by family violence offenders with funds being directed to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Fund to support victim-survivors.
“Over the next 18 months we will continue to deliver more complex reforms following the extensive consultation that has occurred," the Attorney said.
“The Government would like to thank all stakeholders who took the time to make a submission during this round of consultations, to help ensure these important reforms are balanced with community expectations.”
Minister for Women and the Prevention of Family Violence, Jane Howlett said reducing and eliminating family and sexual violence is a priority for the Tasmanian Government.
“We want all Tasmanians to be safe, equal and respected, living free from family violence,” Minister Howlett said.
“Our Government is already investing in initiatives to help address this. The 2026-27 Tasmanian Budget includes $82 million to strengthen the prevention of family violence and expand support for women across the State.
“The investment builds on Tasmania’s whole of government approach, strengthening prevention, early intervention and recovery services that are already making a difference in communities.
“We’re backing programs that stop violence before it starts, supporting women early, and building safer futures for families and communities across Tasmania.”
It is expected a draft Bill will be available for public consultation in late July.
[ More Media Releases from Guy Barnett ](
=======
Story's url: https://minister.dcceew.gov.au/bowen/media-releases/record-renewables-drive-down-bills

26 May 2026
Today’s release of the final Default Market Offer (DMO) shows price reductions for households across every regulated region, and even bigger reductions for small businesses, as our plan for more cheaper cleaner energy and a better deal for households helps shield households from global energy pain.
Household standing offer time of use prices will fall by between 1.1 per cent and 10.7 per cent across South Australia, NSW and south-east Queensland. Flat rate offers are down everywhere between 3.4 per cent and 7.2 percent, except in South Australia where there is an increase of 1.4 per cent.
Small business standing offer time of use prices are set to fall by between 12.1 per cent and 20.9 per cent, and flat rate offers to decrease between 6.8 per cent and 11.3 per cent across every regulated region.
The independent Australian Energy Regulator sets the DMO as a benchmark for residential and small business electricity bills in New South Wales, south-east Queensland and South Australia.
It is no coincidence that energy price reductions have happened as Australia’s main energy grids clocked over 50 per cent renewable generation for the first time at the end of last year, pushing wholesale energy prices down which is beginning to flow through to bills.
The Albanese Government’s roll out of more renewables and storage is reducing reliance on unreliable coal and putting downward pressure on bills.
The 2026-27 determination is the first under the Albanese Government’s reformed DMO framework designed to better protect customers and deliver a fairer deal for consumers.
The Government’s changes mean the DMO is being rebalanced so households and small businesses on standing offers pay a price that better reflects the actual costs of supplying electricity, making sure people on default plans are not paying for unnecessary retailer overheads. The DMO also serves as a benchmark price for retail market offers to compare against.
The Government has implemented a range of consumer rule changes which will further help protect consumers. From 1 July 2026, new rules will:
• Make sure plan benefits last the whole contract  
• Stop sneaky price hikes during fixed contracts  
• Ban unfair fees and dodgy discounts  
• Limit price increases to once per year
These changes will clamp down on retailers who do the wrong thing, by luring customers in with cheap deals, only to move them onto higher cost plans or impose hidden fees and charges. Households and small businesses alike will be better off under these changes. 
They are part of the Albanese Government’s broader plan to deliver cheaper, cleaner, more reliable energy by getting more renewables and storage into the grid, backed by stronger consumer protections, insulating Australians from global energy market volatility.
The Coalition left Australians with an energy policy mess and opposed cost of living relief when people needed help.
The Albanese Government is delivering practical reform that helps households now and builds a better energy system for the future.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Climate Change and Energy, Chris Bowen:**
“Our plan has two parts: More cheaper, cleaner energy and a better deal for households - and that’s what we’re delivering with the latest regulator’s benchmark for energy bills showing declines across households and businesses.
“We’ve got the best sun and wind in the world, and we’re using our sovereign renewables to shield our grid from global energy volatility and to bring down your energy bills.
“The Coalition's plan is to stop renewables and household batteries, sweat coal, and leave Australians to pick up the bill of global shocks.
“We know energy bills are still too high – because when coal breaks down, your bill goes up – but this news shows steady progress.” 
**Background**
A flat rate offer is when customers are charged the same price for electricity at all times, while time of use is when the price of electricity changes depending on what time you use electricity.
_Figure 1. DMO final determination, residential flat rate_  
| State   | Distribution network   | DMO 8 2026-27 ($)   | DMO 7 2025-26 ($)   | Change from 2025 (%, y-o-y)   | Change($)   |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |  
| NSW   | Ausgrid   | $1,899   | 1,965   | -3.4   | - $66   |  
| Endeavour   | $2,328   | 2,411   | -3.4   | -$83   |  
| Essential   | $2,604   | 2,741   | -5.0   | -$137   |  
| SE QLD   | Energex   | $1,988   | 2,143   | -7.2   | -$155   |  
| SA   | SAPN   | $2,334   | 2,301   | 1.4   | $33   |  
_Figure 2. DMO final determination, residential time of use_  
| State   | Distribution network   | DMO 8 2026-27 ($)   | DMO 7 2025-26 ($)   | Change from 2025 (%, y-o-y)   |  Change ($)   |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |  
| NSW   | Ausgrid   | $1,893   | 1,965   | -3.7   | -$72   |  
| Endeavour   | $2,320   | 2,411   | -3.8   | -$91   |  
| Essential   | $2,530   | 2,741   | -7.7   | -$211   |  
| SE QLD   | Energex   | $1,914   | 2,143   | -10.7   | -$229   |  
| SA   | SAPN   | $2,276   | 2,301   | -1.1   | -$25   |  
_Figure 3. DMO final determination, small business flat rate_  
| State   | Distribution network   | DMO 8 2026-27 ($)   | DMO 7 2025-26 ($)   | Change from 2025 (%, y-o-y)   |  Change ($)   |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |  
| NSW   | Ausgrid   | $4,523   | 4,977   | -9.1   | -$454   |  
| Endeavour   | $4,343   | 4,775   | -9.0   | -$432   |  
| Essential   | $5,517   | 6,222   | -11.3   | -$705   |  
| SE QLD   | Energex   | $3,849   | 4,294   | -10.4   | -$445   |  
| SA   | SAPN   | $5,162   | 5,541   | -6.8   | -$379   |  
_Figure 4. DMO final determination, small business time of use_  
| State   | Distribution network   | DMO 8 2026-27 ($)   | DMO 7 2025-26 ($)   | Change from 2025 (%, y-o-y)   | Change ($)   |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |  
| NSW   | Ausgrid   | $4,450   | 4,977   | -10.6   | -$527   |  
| Endeavour   | $4,326   | 4,775   | -9.4   | -$449   |  
| Essential   | $4,919   | 6,222   | -20.9   | -$1303   |  
| SE QLD   | Energex   | $3,693   | 4,294   | -14.0   | -$601   |  
| SA   | SAPN   | $4,868   | 5,541   | -12.1   | -$673   |  
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
