<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/latest-news/2026/may/tasmania-receives-global-recognition-in-foodie-destination-list

27 May 2026 
Jane Howlett, Minister for Tourism, Hospitality and Events 
Southern Tasmania has been named one of the world’s best food destinations by National Geographic.  
The ‘15 best places in the world for food in 2026’ list recognises food destinations at the forefront of global travel, as determined by National Geographic’s network of writers, editors and industry experts.  
Minister for Tourism, Hospitality and Events, Jane Howlett, said being recognised as one of the top foodie destinations in the world by industry experts is an incredible achievement for Tasmania.  
“National Geographic is one of the most trusted voices in travel and we are extremely proud to be the only Australian destination on the list,” Minister Howlett said.  
“One in six Tasmanians work in our tourism and hospitality industry, and attracting international travellers is an important part of supporting jobs, businesses and regional communities across the State.  
“This recognition reinforces what Tasmanians already know. Our world-class produce, talented chefs, cool-climate wines and unique dining experiences make Tasmania one of the most exciting places to eat and drink anywhere in the world.  
“From paddock-to-plate dining experiences and premium seafood to our vibrant hospitality scene and passionate local producers, Tasmania continues to stand out on the global stage.”  
National Geographic’s ‘15 best places in the world for food in 2026’ list highlights Southern Tasmania’s Tasmanian Aboriginal culture and food traditions, world-class seafood, and immersive farm-to-table experiences.  
“Being named among the best food destinations on the planet is a significant endorsement of what our southern region has to offer, and a real opportunity to attract visitors who travel specifically for food experiences,” Minister Howlett said.
[ More Media Releases from Jane Howlett ](
=======
Story's url: https://minister.dcceew.gov.au/bowen/media-releases/joint-media-release-renewables-power-4-million-households-backed-albanese-government

23 May 2026
The Hon Chris Bowen MP, Minister for Climate Change and Energy  
The Hon Josh Wilson MP, Assistant Minister for Climate Change and Energy
* * *
The Albanese Government is backing the biggest single boost to Australia’s main electricity grid with 19 new renewable energy projects that will supply enough cleaner, cheaper, and more reliable electricity for 4 million Australian households by 2030.
Supported through Tender 7 of the Albanese Government’s flagship Capacity Investment Scheme (CIS), the projects will deliver 7.8 GW of renewable generation and a further 7.9 GWh in battery storage through hybrid projects.
Across 19 projects, the wind farms, solar installations and battery developments will be built in NSW, Queensland, Tasmania, Victoria and South Australia to service the National Electricity Market (NEM).
The projects will unlock an estimated $17 billion in private investment and create an estimated 19,000 construction jobs. 
Nearly $1.2 billion in social licence commitments will deliver shared benefits across local communities and provide employment pathways, ranger programs, mental health support programs, and capacity building to increase the participation of First Nations communities in the renewable energy transition.
More than $257 million worth of Australian steel will be used, supporting Australian workers and Australian industry as we build the energy system of the future.
Building on the high quality of Tender 7 bids in the NEM and the broader success of the CIS to date, Tender 9 will open to bids from Monday 25 May 2026.
Tender 9 will target 5 GW of renewable generation and will be open to all NEM jurisdictions except NSW, where proponents can participate in the re-started NSW Roadmap generation tenders.
Tender 9 will include a dedicated capacity allocation for projects that commit to 5 per cent or higher equity and/or revenue sharing agreements with First Nations communities.
This follows an historic boost to Western Australia’s energy system earlier this month, with 1.9 GW of cheaper, cleaner renewable generation and 482 MW of battery storage as part of 10 new projects set to be built across regional WA.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Climate Change and Energy, Chris Bowen:**
“The Capacity Investment Scheme is delivering what Australia needs: more cheap, clean energy, more jobs and more investment in our regions.
“These projects will help keep the lights on, put downward pressure on power prices and cut emissions with the cheapest form of new energy, backed by storage.
“This is not just about megawatts. It is about jobs on the ground, investment in local communities, and making sure communities share in the benefits of the renewable energy transition.
Cheaper, cleaner, more reliable renewable energy. That’s what we promised, that’s what we are delivering.” 
**Quotes attributable to Assistant Minister for Climate Change and Energy, Josh Wilson:**
“The Capacity Investment Scheme is delivering cheaper, cleaner and more reliable electricity to power our homes and businesses for decades to come.
“At a time when we’re all feeling the pinch from volatile fossil fuel markets, these investments are more important than ever, and, as demonstrated by the quality and volume of bids, the market is responding to the stability the CIS offers.
“Coming off the back of the two best quarters for renewable energy, and as we see coal and gas generation in decline, these 19 projects will help drive even more investment in cleaner, cheaper energy across the NEM.
“When ageing coal breaks down, bills go up. The Liberals’ plan is to keep Australia hooked on ageing, unreliable and expensive coal plants for longer, instead of building the cleaner, cheaper renewables and storage we need.” 
**Background**  
Tender 7 successful projects:  
| **Project**  | **Proponent**  | **Technology**  | **Capacity (MW)**  | **Hybrid Storage Capacity (MWh)**  | **Location**  |  
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |  
| Baldon Wind Farm  | Goldwind / Omni  | Wind + BESS  | 346  | 132  | Moulamein | NSW  |  
| Banana Range Wind Farm  | EDF Power Solutions   | Wind  | 228  | N/A  | Banana | QLD   |  
| Birriwa Solar   | ACEN Australia   | Solar + BESS  | 600  | 2,400  | Birriwa | NSW  |  
| Bullawah Wind Farm Stage 1  | BayWa r.e.  | Wind  | 300  | N/A  | Hay South | NSW  |  
| Bullyard Project   | European Energy Australia  | Solar  | 97  | N/A  | Bucca | QLD  |  
| Bungaban Wind Energy Project   | Windlab  | Wind + BESS  | 1,150  | 1,400  | Bungaban | QLD   |  
| Cellars Hill Wind Farm  | Gamuda Renewables and Alternate Path  | Wind  | 341  | N/A  | Bothwell | TAS  |  
| Dinawan Solar Hybrid   | Spark Renewables  | Solar + BESS   | 300  | 1,200  | Bundure | NSW  |  
| Gundary Hybrid Facility   | Lightsource BP  | Solar + BESS  | 320  | 1,391  | Gundary | NSW  |  
| Gunning Solar Farm Hybrid Project   | Zero-E / Grupo Cobra  | Solar + BESS  | 290  | 542  | Lade Vale | NSW  |  
| Kayuga Solar Farm and BESS  | European Energy Australia  | Solar  | 85  | N/A  | Kayuga | NSW  |  
| Moranbah Solar Farm  | Zero-E / Grupo Cobra  | Solar + BESS  | 171  | 100  | Coppabella | QLD   |  
| Theodore Wind Farm  | Theodore Energy Development  | Wind  | 1,022  | N/A  | Camboon | QLD  |  
| Wattle Creek Solar Hybrid   | Spark Renewables   | Solar + BESS  | 180  | 720  | Brayton | NSW  |  
| Weasel Solar Farm   | Gamuda Renewables and Alternate Path  | Solar  | 200  | N/A  | Bothwell | TAS  |  
| Whyte Yarcowie Wind Farm  | EDF Power Solutions   | Wind  | 289  | N/A  | Whyte Yarcowie | SA  |  
| Willatook Wind Farm  | ENGIE  | Wind  | 338  | N/A  | Willatook | VIC  |  
| Woolsthorpe Wind Farm  | ICA Partners  | Wind  | 72  | N/A  | Woolsthorpe | VIC   |  
| Yanco Delta Wind Farm  | Origin Energy  | Wind  | 1,498  | N/A  | Moonbria | NSW  |  
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
