Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/operation-broadwater-blitzes-building-sites-between-coffs-harbour-and-tweed-heads

Ministerial media release
Published:
    5 June 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for Building, Minister for the North Coast
[ Listen ]( "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")
* * *
The Minns Labor Government has blitzed more than 100 building sites from Coffs Harbour to Tweed Heads to help lift construction standards and boost confidence in the home building industry.
‘Operation Broadwater’ visited Casuarina, Coffs Harbour, Corindi Beach, Cudgen, Cumbalum, Goonellabah, Kingscliff, Lennox Head, Moonee Beach, Mullumbimby, Southwest Rocks, Terranora, Toormina, Tweed Heads South, Valla Beach, Woolgoolga and Yamba with a focus on compliance with licensing and signage rules, specialist plumbing and electrical work.
While most builders welcomed inspectors onto site and exhibited high standards of work, the visits saw 35 fines and 40 Written Direction Notices (WDNs) issued for a range of non-compliance issues. This included 23 fines issued for unlicensed work and contracting, as well as another five penalties for incorrect display of signage.
A further five fines were issued for non-compliant plumbing in heat pump installations, and two fines were also issued for non-compliant electrical work on heat pump installations.
The main issues covered by WDNs issued by inspectors were for missing Safety Data Sheets for battery systems (26), inadequate main switch labelling (16) and insufficient signage detailing battery system voltage and currents (11).
Since it was established as the dedicated regulator in 2023, Building Commission NSW has prioritised proactive, targeted enforcement action around issues like these to protect homeowners and raise industry standards.
Alongside inspections, Building Commission NSW delivered targeted industry seminars in Coffs Harbour and Tweed Heads, engaging local tradespeople and contractors.
The seminars focused on licensing and supervision requirements, Home Building Compensation Fund obligations and recent changes to regulatory requirements.
This is all part of the Minns Labor Government’s plan to lift building standards across the sector as we deliver more homes and build better communities across NSW.
Building Commission NSW will conduct further industry seminars this year, visiting Queanbeyan, Dubbo, Bathurst, Port Macquarie / Forster, Albury and back to Tweed Heads / Coffs Harbour.
**Minister for Building Anoulack Chanthivong said:**
“It’s fantastic to see the North Coast community engaging with Building Commission NSW to deliver high-quality homes in the region.
“Operation Broadwater is one of the biggest compliance campaigns Building Commission NSW has conducted this year, demonstrating the Minns Labor Government’s ongoing commitment to lifting standards across the building industry.
“We set up Building Commission NSW in 2023 to do exactly this kind of work – and there has never been a more important time to support local practitioners in their work to build a better NSW.”
**Minister for the North Coast Janelle Saffin said:**
“Our North Coast communities are growing rapidly, and local families investing their hard-earned money into building a home deserve absolute peace of mind. They need to know that every dollar they spend is buying a safe, compliant, and structurally sound property.
“We know the vast majority of tradies are doing the right thing, Operation Broadwater shows why proactive enforcement is so critical.
“We want to protect local home buyers and ensure our regional construction industry remains safe and fair for everyone which is why we are cracking down on unlicensed work and poor standards now.”
**NSW Building Commissioner James Sherrard:**
“While most tradespeople were doing the right thing, unlicensed work and electrical compliance remain an issue that Building Commission NSW continues to see throughout the state.
“I want to re-iterate to the industry, especially on the Mid North and North Coast, that we take a strong regulatory approach to these issues because they can pose serious risks to homeowners.
“Building Commission NSW will continue to undertake proactive inspections and engagement across the state to support a fair, compliant and safe residential construction industry in NSW.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
6 May 2026
The Minns Labor Government will today introduce nation-leading building reforms to support the uptake of Modern Methods of Construction (MMC), streamline building approvals and introduce stronger penalties for certifiers to NSW Parliament.
Ministerial media release
22 April 2026
The Minns Labor Government has brought together housing peak bodies, key industry stakeholders, and union representatives to discuss the impacts of current fuel supply challenges on the residential housing construction industry.
Ministerial media release
17 April 2026
A major joint operation between Building Commission NSW and SafeWork NSW in the Hunter Region aimed at monitoring building compliance, raising industry standards and identifying ways to better support the area’s growing number of local builders has now wrapped up.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
