Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/affordable-homes-from-vacant-lots

Ministerial media release
Published:
    5 June 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for Housing
[ Listen ]( "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")
* * *
Construction is now underway on 113 social and affordable homes in Padstow, one of fourteen projects made possible under round two of the Housing Australia Future Fund (HAFF).
This development is part of the Albanese and Minns Governments' joint effort to tackle the housing crisis by building more homes, including the largest investment in social and affordable housing in a generation.
This latest project in Padstow will deliver 64 social homes and 49 affordable homes, providing secure housing for key workers, people on low incomes, and those at risk of homelessness.
Located near the Padstow train station, the project will transform four vacant parcels of land into a modern eight-storey development with new homes, retail and commercial space, alongside shared green areas for residents.
These homes have been made possible by the Albanese Labor Government’s Housing Australia Future Fund (HAFF), which is co-funding the project.
Funding secured through the second round of the HAFF program is helping Homes NSW to supercharge the delivery of more than 2,500 new homes across 14 developments.
The joint investment will support people on low incomes, key workers, women and children escaping domestic violence, and others in need of stable housing.
Projects will be delivered in collaboration with Housing Australia, community housing providers, and the private sector to achieve strong tenant and community outcomes.
The Padstow project is being delivered in partnership between Homes NSW and Traders In Purple.
Under the $6.6 billion _Building Homes for NSW_ program, the Minns Labor Government is building homes at scale and restoring public housing as a core part of the housing system.
The Minns Labor Government has already delivered more than 3,500 new public, community, and affordable homes since April 2023 and is on track to deliver the largest expansion of public housing in modern NSW history.
These homes are some of the 55,000 social and affordable homes being delivered by the Albanese Labor Government across the nation – including more than 6,500 in NSW with many more to come in the next round of the HAFF program.
It’s all part of the plan to build a better NSW with more homes where people can live close to jobs, transport, and services.
**Minister for Housing Rose Jackson said:**
“I’m thrilled to be announcing that work has started on another major housing project in NSW, this time delivering over 113 new social and affordable homes for southwest Sydney.
“Last week I was at a housing site in the city’s northwest, today it’s the southwest, next week we’ll be somewhere else – that is what tackling the housing crisis looks like. It’s brick by brick, street by street, suburb by suburb, getting shovels in the ground to build the homes we desperately need.
“We are delivering on our promise to utilise the Commonwealth’s Housing Australia Future Fund to create as many new homes in NSW as possible.
“Real collaboration between all levels of government is critical and I’m proud that the NSW Government is leveraging Commonwealth investment into real delivery.”
**Federal Member for Banks Zhi Soon said:**
"These 113 new homes in Padstow supported by the Albanese and Minns Governments mean a safe roof over the heads of 113 more local families.
“Across New South Wales we're delivering thousands of new social and affordable homes just like these ones - making sure locals have a place to call home when they need it the most."
**Member for East Hills Kylie Wilkinson said:**
“This project is a massive win for Padstow. It’s great to see construction underway on a development that will transform vacant land into 113 much-needed homes. These homes will provide affordable housing for the people in my community who need it most.
“Dozens of essential workers, families and others doing it tough across southwest Sydney will be able to live affordably close to public transport, shops and local services.”
**Housing Australia CEO Scott Langford said:**
“We’re incredibly proud to be partnering with Homes NSW and the private and community housing sectors to bring this important project to life in Padstow.
“This development is a great example of what can be achieved when governments, industry and not-for-profit partners work together with a shared purpose - delivering more safe, secure and affordable homes for people facing the greatest housing pressures.
“Through the Housing Australia Future Fund, we’re able to support projects like this that not only increase housing supply, but also create well-connected communities close to transport, jobs and essential services.”
**Traders In Purple Director Charles Daoud said:**
“Traders In Purple looks forward to delivering the homes that Sydney so urgently needs, in partnership with the NSW and Federal Government.
“We are incredibly proud to continue our long-standing relationship as a trusted Development Partner with Homes NSW. It is a further demonstration that collaboration between government and industry is the most effective way of creating life-changing secure and affordable housing.
“This one is particularly special having attended St Therese Primary School, Padstow and spending a lot of time in the town centre in my youth. These quality homes with purpose will enrich the community and provide a foundation from which residents can live their best lives.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
5 June 2026
The Minns Labor Government is delivering more homes. The land audit has identified more than 670 new homes which could be delivered across surplus and underutilised NSW Government-owned sites as part of the NSW Government’s $6.6 billion Building Homes for NSW program to help deliver 30,000 homes across the state.
Ministerial media release
30 May 2026
The renewal of social housing in Sydney’s north-west is well underway, with nearly 50 new homes recently completed as Stage 1A of the Telopea Renewal project receives planning approval.
Ministerial media release
22 May 2026
The 2026 Statewide Street Count is showing encouraging improvements in key locations, with fewer people sleeping rough in both inner-city Sydney and Byron Shire following targeted investment and coordinated support.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
