Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/land-audit-grows-housing-pipeline-by-670-homes

Ministerial media release
Published:
    5 June 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for Lands and Property
[ Listen ]( "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")
* * *
The Minns Labor Government is delivering more homes. The land audit has identified more than 670 new homes which could be delivered across surplus and underutilised NSW Government-owned sites as part of the NSW Government’s $6.6 billion Building Homes for NSW program to help deliver 30,000 homes across the state.
All nine sites within this latest tranche were assessed as suitable for housing delivery by the NSW Government’s ongoing land audit, led by Property & Development NSW. To date, the land audit has identified sites capable of delivering more than 12,000 homes across the State.
Four of the sites are in the Blacktown local government area, one of the fastest growing in New South Wales, with the potential for more than 569 new dwellings.
Up to 525 homes could be delivered on vacant land at Rooty Hill and Quakers Hill, with another 42 new homes capable of being delivered on a high-density vacant lot in Blacktown.
A former service station on the Princes Highway at Kogarah could be redeveloped to provide up to 12 dwellings following remediation works, while a parcel of vacant land at Wolli Creek could see up to 15 new dwellings developed under the current mixed-use zoning.
Vacant parcels of land at Bega and Macquarie Park, as well as a site at Smithfield are capable of delivering an additional 75 homes.
The new audit sites at Quakers Hill, Rooty Hill, and Bega are all well-suited to the NSW Government’s Housing Pattern Book. The Pattern Book offers high-quality architect designs supported by a 10-day planning approval pathway to make it faster and more affordable to design and build a home. This makes some of the smaller government-owned sites earmarked for private sector divestment even more attractive to developers.
All sites identified as part of the land audit are first offered to Homes NSW and Landcom, the NSW Government’s developer. All land audit housing numbers are indicative only and based on the current zoning of sites.
**Minister for Lands and Property Steve Kamper said:**
“The Minns Labor Government has made the largest investment in housing in the state’s history through the $6.6 billion Building Homes for NSW program, with the Land Audit helping to identify unused land.
“With today’s announcement, the Land Audit has unlocked sites capable of delivering over 12,000 homes across the State, with approximately 50 per cent of homes to be delivered by Homes NSW and Landcom.
“Our Government is pulling every lever to unlock the delivery of housing, and the Land Audit is creating opportunities to build more homes sooner, delivering much needed housing supply for families across the state, complementing Homes NSW and Landcom’s substantial housing project pipelines.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
27 May 2026
The Minns Labor Government will challenge housing providers to deliver the maximum amount of affordable housing on the former Forest High School site.
Ministerial media release
1 April 2026
The Minns Labor Government is delivering more homes. The land audit has identified more than 400 new homes which could be delivered across four surplus and underutilised NSW Government-owned sites as part of the NSW Government’s Building Homes for NSW program to deliver 30,000 homes across the state.
Ministerial media release
20 February 2026
The Minns Labor Government is accelerating the delivery of new homes, with the potential to deliver more than 180 homes across 9 newly identified sites as part of the NSW Government’s Building Homes for NSW program to deliver 30,000 homes across the state.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
