Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/minns-labor-government-invests-600000-to-make-central-coasts-peninsula-greener-and-cooler

Ministerial media release
Published:
    8 May 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for the Central Coast, Minister for Planning and Public Spaces
* * *
The Minns Labor Government is investing $600,000 to help transform the streets, parks, and public spaces of Ettalong, Umina and Woy Woy into cooler, greener environments
The funding will allow Central Coast Council to deliver 360 trees and 1,500 square metres of biodiverse understorey planting, creating more liveable and climate-resilient communities on the Peninsula.
It’s part of the Greening our City program which supports councils to grow tree canopy cover, which helps reduce urban heat and boosts biodiversity, so neighbourhoods are more liveable and climate resilient.
As part of round five, eight projects across the Central Coast, Hunter, and Illawarra-Shoalhaven will receive more than $3 million to plant more than 12,000 trees and 14,500 square metres of understorey planting.
It’s the first time the program - which targets councils in fast-growing areas where urban greening will make the biggest difference for growing populations - has been expanded beyond Greater Sydney.
Almost 90% of plantings in the current round will go into sites that have less than 20% canopy cover. These plantings will cool neighbourhoods, improve air quality, and support communities in areas that need it most.
Since 2019, the program has awarded $46.8 million to 164 greening projects across Greater Sydney Central Coast, the Hunter and the Illawarra-Shoalhaven to build climate resilience, improve air quality, and connect communities with nature.
The program is funded by the NSW Climate Change Fund and administered by the Department of Planning, Housing and Infrastructure, with applications assessed by an independent panel and overseen by a probity advisor.
A list of successful applicants is available on the [NSW Government website](
**Minister for Planning and Public Spaces Paul Scully said:**
“This is another example of the Minns Labor Government helping create high-quality green spaces.
“Greening our City delivers beautiful public spaces where people can relax and play in cooler, more liveable communities.
“This grant will make the Central Coast a greener and more enjoyable place to live, work and visit.”
**Minister for the Central Coast David Harris said:**
“Planting more trees across Ettalong, Umina and Woy Woy is a practical way to help beat the heat in our growing community.  
“More trees mean more shade, cooler streets, and a better, more sustainable quality of life.
“The Greening our City program is helping our region grow into a healthier, more resilient place for future generations.”
**Member for Gosford Liesl Tesch said:**
“I’ve been fiercely advocating for further investment in greening across the Gosford electorate and I am thrilled to say that the Minns Labor Government is delivering $600,000 to tackle urban heat across the Peninsula.
“This is fantastic for our community and will make a real difference in shaping the liveability of our community into the future.
“This is the kind of investment that makes the Peninsula a better place to live, not just for the residents of today but for the families who will call this community home for generations to come.”
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
