Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/major-redevelopment-of-gillieston-public-school-reaches-new-heights

Ministerial media release
Published:
    24 April 2026 
Released by:
    Deputy Premier, Minister for Education and Early Learning, Minister for the Hunter
* * *
The Minns Labor Government is delivering another long overdue school upgrade for regional NSW, with Gillieston Public School’s major redevelopment reaching a major construction milestone.
The Member for Maitland, Jenny Aitchison MP, inspected Gillieston Public School today following the topping out of the new three-storey school building. 
Surging demand for public education in Maitland left Gillieston Public School bursting at the seams under the Liberals and Nationals, with most of the school’s students learning in demountable classrooms.
Once the work is complete all the school’s 24 demountables will be replaced with 32 modern permanent classrooms and three support classrooms.
The upgrade will increase the permanent capacity of Gillieston Public School, which currently has only two permanent classrooms, by more than 650 students, future-proofing the school for further growth.
Additional redevelopment work includes a new outside of school hours care facilities, a covered outdoor learning area, upgraded sports facilities, as well as a new library, school hall, and canteen.
The school will also benefit from a co-located fee-free public preschool, as will nearby Tenambit Public School.
Work is underway on the delivery of both these new co-located public preschools, which will accommodate up to 200 children per week between them.
The upgraded school and the two public preschools will open from Day 1, Term 1, 2027 as the Minns Labor Government continues its work to rebuild public education across NSW.
The new public preschools are part of the government’s commitment to build 100 public preschools by 2027, the biggest expansion of public preschools in NSW history.
This is part of a record $9 billion investment in new schools and upgrades, including $2.1 billion for regional NSW, giving our children access to a world class public education, right where they live.
The Minns Labor Government has also delivered the biggest pay rise in a generation to attract the best teachers and keep them in the classroom, resulting in teacher vacancies falling to the lowest level in 12 years, halving the number of merged and cancelled classes in NSW schools.
This is all part of the Minns Labor Government’s plan to deliver better schools and more teachers to give our kids the world class education they deserve.
**Deputy Premier of New South Wales and Minister for Education and Early Learning Prue Car said:**
“This is a major investment in the future of public education for Maitland families, providing local students with the world class facilities they deserve.”
“For far too long, the Gillieston Public School community was neglected by the Liberals and Nationals.
“The Minns Labor Government, with the tireless advocacy of local MP Jenny Aitchison, have listened to the community, and students can look forward to learning in their new classrooms from the beginning of next year.”
**Minister for the Hunter Yasmin Catley said:**
“This is great news for families in Gillieston Heights and right across Maitland.
“The Hunter is growing quickly, and communities rightly expect the essential infrastructure to keep up - including great local public schools.
“For too long, families at Gillieston Public School had to make do with temporary classrooms and overcrowding. This upgrade is about giving them the permanent, high-quality facilities they deserve."
**Member for Maitland Jenny Aitchison said:**
“It’s no secret that Gillieston Heights is a rapidly growing suburb, and the public school has been bursting at the seams for over a decade.
“This redevelopment would not be happening without the strong advocacy of the school community. We’ve been calling for upgrades to this school for years.
“This is a much-needed upgrade, that will ensure this fantastic school can continue to serve this community well into the future.” 
**Gillieston Public School Principal Lauren Fernando said:**
“It’s exciting to see our upgrade underway. Our students are looking forward to modern, permanent classrooms and facilities. 
“This upgrade is going to make a big difference to our students, our staff and our whole school community.” 
* * *
Ministerial media release
22 April 2026
Today’s ICAC findings highlight the leadership failures in School Infrastructure NSW under the former Liberal National Government, which had real consequences for NSW parents and students who were denied the schools their communities desperately needed.
Ministerial media release
16 April 2026
Students in Hay and across the Southern Riverina can now access tertiary education closer to home, with a new Country Universities Centre (CUC) officially opened yesterday.
Ministerial media release
16 April 2026
Thousands more children will receive free health and development checks this year as the Minns Labor Government delivers a record $9.8 million in participation grants for early learning services across the state amid soaring demand.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
