Ministerial media release
Published:
    9 March 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for Environment and Heritage, Minister for Recovery
* * *
Visitors to national parks are in for a much smoother ride thanks to a joint investment by the Albanese and Minns Governments.
The $16.2 million grant to the NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS) is through the Infrastructure Betterment Fund under joint Commonwealth-State Disaster Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA).
A total of 12 tourism roads will be upgraded in flood-impacted national parks in the Central Coast and MidCoast Local Government Areas to build resilience so they can better withstand future significant rainfall events and natural disasters.
Funding for the Central Coast national parks includes Brisbane Water National Park, Bouddi National Park and Watagans National Park.
Funding for the MidCoast areas will upgrade visitor roads in Myall Lakes National Park, Khappinghat National Park, and in collaboration with MidCoast Council, a key tourism road route linking Bulahdelah and Bombah Point.
Works will include raising and sealing sections of gravel road to improve flood resilience, road surface upgrades for driver comfort and safety, and additional culverts and drainage structures to improve under-road drainage.
Additionally, projects will include upgrades to priority fire trails with the installation of turning and passing bays as required under Rural Fire Service certifications.
Works across the 12 road locations within Hunter Central Coast Branch of National Parks have started and there will be temporary traffic flow disruptions outside peak school time.
Visitors to these reserves are reminded to check the closure and alerts page at [
Infrastructure Betterment Fund grants assist in the rebuilding of disaster-affected roads, bridges and infrastructure, making them better able to withstand future natural disasters. This $16.2 million upgrade will repair and rebuild public assets directly impacted by consecutive natural disasters.
Infrastructure Betterment funding ensures connection and continuity of access for communities and lowers the risk of economic and environment impact following natural disasters.Find out more online at [
**Quotes attributable to Federal Minister for Emergency Management, Kristy McBain:**
“The Albanese Government is committed to building disaster-resilient infrastructure, particularly in areas that are more vulnerable.
“With this significant funding, locals and visitors of the Brisbane Water, Bouddi and Watagans National Parks can feel safer when using roads that will be upgraded to be more flood resilient.
“We will continue working with the Minns Government to ensure that our roads and infrastructure are capable of withstanding disaster conditions.”
**Quotes attributable to NSW Minister for Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water, Penny Sharpe:**
“These welcome upgrades are about protecting our National Parks and will help bring back tourists to the Central Coast and Mid North Coast regions.
**Quotes attributable to NSW Minister for Recovery and Minister for the North Coast, Janelle Saffin:**
“Communities across the Central Coast and Mid North Coast know all too well the disruption caused by floods and severe weather, and this funding is about making sure vital access roads in our national parks are rebuilt stronger so people can get back to enjoying these places sooner.
“Through the Infrastructure Betterment Fund, we are learning from past disasters and investing in practical improvements that reduce the impact of future events, protect local jobs and tourism, and provide more certainty for communities when extreme weather hits.
“By upgrading roads, drainage and fire trails, we are improving safety for visitors, park staff and emergency services, while helping local communities stay connected to their national parks, which are so important to regional wellbeing and recovery.”
**Quotes attributable to Federal Member for Robertson, Dr Gordon Reid MP:**
“The Central Coast region has some of the best National Parks in NSW, and both the Albanese and Minns Labor Governments are making them more resilient, accessible, and safe.
“As an avid bushwalker, I know that there will be many residents on the Central Coast, and across NSW, that will be pleased to see these investments in our National Parks infrastructure.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
9 March 2026
Moree farms will soon be able to cut emissions with the region set to host an innovative green hydrogen and ammonia plant, powered by renewable energy, after the project was given the green light by the Minns Labor Government.
Ministerial media release
25 February 2026
The Minns Labor Government is bringing back its highly successful Washing Machine Exchange Program, helping thousands of pensioners, veterans, and social housing tenants to cut their water and power bills.
Ministerial media release
17 February 2026
The Minns Labor Government is further streamlining planning approvals, while making sure new homes and infrastructure are built to better withstand the extreme weather impacts and natural disasters caused by climate change.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
