Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/career-development-northern-beaches-hospital

Ministerial media release
Published:
    1 May 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for Health
* * *
Nurses and midwives at Northern Beaches Hospital will be able to access additional career development opportunities now that the hospital has transitioned into the public system.
The former Liberal-National Government privatised Northern Beaches Hospital and planned to privatise five other hospitals across New South Wales.
The Minns Labor Government has undertaken significant work to bring Northern Beaches Hospital back into public hands as well as protect the state’s acute public hospitals from future Coalition privatisation.
The NSW Government is committed to providing nurses the support they need at every stage of their careers, which will strengthen the future of healthcare delivery across the Northern Beaches.
A range of specialty development programs in critical care, aged care, neonatal intensive care, acute care and palliative care are now available, ensuring nurses can gain expertise relevant to their field, and ultimately enhancing patient outcomes.
Nurses now also have access to professional development days, which provide opportunities for them to connect, share knowledge and build expertise.
Early career nurses will benefit from leadership programs, structured mentorship, clinical supervision, coaching and teaching across Northern Sydney Local Health District.
Additional funding to support nursing and midwifery-led projects, as well as scholarship opportunities through Northern Sydney Local Health District and NSW Health are also be available.
Research will be supported through access to the NSLHD Nursing and Midwifery Research Centre, which provides masterclasses in research development, statistics, writing and publication.
Professional recognition is a key feature of the NSW public health system, including opportunities to secure funding to attend professional conferences, and entry into the prestigious Mary Chiarella Research Medal — the only award of its kind in NSW.
In addition, nurses and midwives now have access to a range of internal conferences and showcases, including the Person-Centred Care Showcase, Nursing and Midwifery Research Conference, and specialty-specific development days for areas such as neonatal and renal nursing.
There has also been a positive resolution to the issue of tax treatment of transferred annual leave. The Commissioner of Taxation has approved a variation which will allow staff to transfer unused annual leave balances to NSW Health without tax being withheld at the point of transfer and then again when the annual leave is used. The arrangement ensures staff are not financially disadvantaged when NBH transfers to public ownership. This decision removes a key staff concern associated with transferring leave balances when they transition to NSW Health. Supporting staff and ensuring the best patient outcomes is a top priority for the Minns Government as the hospital transitions into public hands.
Supporting staff and ensuring the best patient outcomes is a top priority for the Minns Government as the hospital transitions into public hands.
The Minns Government is rebuilding an engaged and supported nursing workforce following wage freezes under the Liberals and Nationals, including by:
  * Abolishing the wages cap;
  * Delivering the largest pay increase for nurses in more than two decades and the largest pay rise ever for the lowest paid nurses in NSW;
  * Saving 1,112 nurses which the Liberal Government planned to sack;
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Health Ryan Park:**
“As these nurses join the NSW public health system, they now have access to professional development, education and support that reflects the value we place on their skills and dedication.
“This is about creating clear pathways for nurses and midwives to grow their healthcare careers, whether that’s stepping into leadership, specialising in a clinical field, or contributing to innovation and research.
“The Coalition left the Northern Beaches community and the staff at Northern Beaches Hospital saddled with one of the worst privatisation deals in NSW history. The Minns Government is fixing that, with the hospital now back in public hands.
“I want to acknowledge the NSW Nurses and Midwives Association for their long-time advocacy to bring the hospital into public ownership.
* * *
Ministerial media release
1 May 2026
Allied health staff at Northern Beaches Hospital are now able to access expanded training, and additional professional development and career pathway opportunities following the hospital’s transition to public ownership yesterday.
Ministerial media release
1 May 2026
Communities in the Central Coast are benefitting from more timely access to urgent care, with more than 25,000 visits made to the Long Jetty Urgent Care Service since it opened in December 2023.
Ministerial media release
29 April 2026
The Minns Labor Government has today finalised the transition of the Northern Beaches Hospital to the public health system, bringing the facility into public hands and correcting one of the worst privatisation mistakes in NSW history.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
