Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/forest-high-school-returns

Ministerial media release
Published:
    15 May 2026 
Released by:
    The Premier, Deputy Premier, Minister for Education and Early Learning
* * *
Students and staff have welcomed the opening of the new Forest High School, as the Minns Labor Government delivers on its promise to build world-class infrastructure across NSW.
The ribbon will be cut on the new campus today by the Premier, alongside the Member for Wakehurst Michael Regan and Principal Nathan Lawler.
Now on Allambie Road, Allambie Heights, the $160 million Forest High School is a comprehensive co-educational high school for up to 1,500 students, with views across the Northern Beaches.
The new school includes 73 classrooms and three special support unit classrooms, a library, canteen and administration spaces, an outdoor synthetic sports field, five basketball courts, landscaped recreation and outdoor learning areas, and more than 180 parking spaces for bicycles and scooters.
Forest High School is a local school of choice. Its supportive environment and strong community engagement help every student thrive, with explicit teaching used across all year levels to help deliver strong academic results.
The new school location remains within the current intake area for The Forest High School, ensuring a smooth transition for students who will continue their educational journey at the existing school site until the completion of the new school.
Over the past two years, two thirds of the school’s HSC students have achieved results in the top three bands, its highest proportion in recent years.
Across NSW, 230 new and upgraded public schools are being delivered as part of the NSW Government’s record $9 billion commitment to rebuild public education.
This record investment is backed by $100 million for new specialist facilities to deliver programs for high potential and gifted students across 33 partner schools through the Inspire program, and by a teacher workforce with the lowest vacancy rate in 12 years.
**Premier of New South Wales Chris Minns said:**
“Today is an exciting day for students, teachers and families on the Northern Beaches as we officially open the new Forest High School campus.
“This is exactly the kind of investment growing communities deserve – a brand-new public high school with modern classrooms, outstanding sporting facilities and high-quality learning spaces that will support students for generations to come.”
**Deputy Premier and Minister for Education and Early Learning Prue Car said:**
“We’re excited to open the brand-new Forest High School, which shows this Government’s investment in public education in the Northern Beaches.
“There is a strong sense of community and values, and high expectations at The Forest, and the new facilities will be a perfect match for them.
“I am confident it will be a beacon of excellence in the area for generations to come, where every student is inspired to reach their full potential.”
**Member for Wakehurst Michael Regan said:**
“This is a proud day for The Forest High School and for public education in Wakehurst. It’s great to see the Premier here today recognising the importance of this investment in public education on the Northern Beaches.
“This day has been a long time coming. The vision for this relocated campus was in the works since my early days as Mayor.
“The new school campus is a huge step forward with modern classrooms, facilities and great spaces for sport, performance and student wellbeing.
“I want to thank the teachers, staff, students and families who have carried the school’s strong community spirit into its new home.”
**Principal Nathan Lawler said:**
“Our state-of-the-art facilities open up wonderful opportunities for our students, and I am especially excited to see our creative students showcase their talents in the performance theatre.
“We have high expectations of our students, and we now have the facilities to match the effort they're putting in and what we're expecting from them.
“By working together as one unified community, we will continue to grow and thrive, always focused on serving our students.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
15 May 2026
The Minns Labor Government is boosting the workforce in Western NSW by investing an additional $4.9 million into early childhood education and care services into the high need locations of Carrathool, Hay and Warrumbungle Shires.
Ministerial media release
14 May 2026
For the first time, every NSW public high school will be able to offer the most academically demanding HSC courses with a new HSC Subject Guarantee, as the Minns Labor Government continues to grow the Inspire High Potential and Gifted Education program.
Ministerial media release
8 May 2026
New rules requiring early learning services to undertake strict screening checks and verify suitability to work with children are now in place as part of the Minns Labor Government reforms to keep children safe.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
