Ministerial media release
Published:
    9 March 2026 
Released by:
    Deputy Premier, Minister for Planning and Public Spaces
* * *
A new billion-dollar Aldi Automated Distribution Centre has been approved in the Aerotropolis, continuing momentum and signalling growing global investment confidence in one of Western Sydney’s most strategically important precincts.
The innovative logistics hub, will be the size of 15 soccer fields and is expected to create around 3,700 construction jobs and 585 permanent local jobs, providing a major economic boost for Western Sydney.
Located beside the new Western Sydney Airport the global retail giant will be able to take advantage of incoming national and international freight to supply their more than 200 of its stores across the state.
Once built it will operate 24/7 with around 80 per cent of operations to be automated and rooftop solar panels, energy efficient design to help the facility reach a goal of net-zero operations by 2035.
The Aldi project is the biggest distribution centre green lit in the Aerotropolis and the first state significant approval within the Ingham Property Group Master Plan area, which is a key Aerotropolis precinct designed for mixed‑use industrial, commercial and retail opportunities located adjacent to Bradfield City, Australia’s first new city in 100 years.
The recently released draft Sydney Plan outlines the long‑term vision for the Western Sydney Aerotropolis and Bradfield City as a nationally significant centre for jobs, industry and global connectivity, anchored by Western Sydney International Airport and new city‑shaping infrastructure.
Since 2023 the Minns Labor Government have approved seven projects worth more than $1.9 billion in the Aerotropolis with a further 25 worth more than $5.8 billion in the pipeline.
Approved State Significant Developments in the Aerotropolis, include the Bradfield City’s 2 Advanced Manufacturing Research Facilities and large-scale industrial estates such as the Elizabeth Enterprise Precinct and Barings Luddenham Industrial Estate.
**Deputy Premier of New South Wales and Minister for Western Sydney Prue Car said:**
“This billion dollar investment will create more than 3,700 jobs and over 500 ongoing roles, a strong show of confidence in the potential of the Aerotropolis precinct.
“The Minns Labor Government is delivering on our promise to grow Western Sydney by backing projects that create jobs, attract investment, and unlock opportunity.
“This project will further solidify Western Sydney as a critical hub of employment, industry, and innovation.”
**Minister for Planning and Public Spaces Paul Scully said:**
“This approval will enable a $1 billion investment that will create thousands of jobs cementing the Aerotropolis as an engine room for jobs growth.
“The Aerotropolis was designed to spark new industries and future-focused jobs, and Aldi’s investment decision shows that vision is taking shape.
“With Western Sydney International Airport opening in 2026, the timing of this approval underscores the growing recognition of Western Sydney as a strategic gateway for national supply chains and international markets.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
24 February 2026
An expanded emergency department, new medical short stay unit and a neurology research facility are key parts of the redeveloped Sydney Children’s Hospital, Randwick, which was officially opened today.
Ministerial media release
23 February 2026
The Minns Labor Government has unveiled the designs of a new park at Kellyville and released the first $90 million of infrastructure grants from a $520 million investment in the Transport Oriented Development (TOD) Accelerated Precincts.
Ministerial media release
14 February 2026
The Minns Labor Government is backing local businesses and the local economy to help drive locals and visitors back to Bondi, one of the world’s best places to visit. 
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
