Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/new-rouse-hill-hospital-moves-from-planning-to-delivery

Ministerial media release
Published:
    1 May 2026 
Released by:
    Deputy Premier, Minister for Health, Minister for Planning and Public Spaces, Minister for Western Sydney
* * *
North west Sydney is a step closer to a state of the art healthcare facility, with the designs for the $910 million Rouse Hill Hospital officially locked in and early works underway.
The Minns Labor Government, in partnership with the Albanese Government, is delivering the new public hospital which will provide world class, comprehensive, integrated health care to the growing region of north west Sydney now and into the future.
The delivery of this hospital is a major milestone for the community which was promised three times by the former Liberal National Government but never delivered.
The Coalition failed to deliver or properly fund major hospital projects around NSW leaving parts of the state missing entire hospitals and health systems under severe pressure.
The Minns Labor Government is fixing this by delivering more hospitals and more beds to meet the health needs of growing communities, including in Rouse Hill.
Early works have started to prepare the site and with the project now approved, the construction contract is expected to be awarded later this year.
Key features of the new hospital include:
  * an Emergency Department
  * comprehensive birthing services including birthing rooms and a maternity inpatient unit
  * inpatient beds and day surgery services
  * short stay medical assessment services
  * pathology, pharmacy and medical imaging services
  * outpatient and ambulatory care services including paediatrics and renal dialysis
  * virtual care and hospital in the home services
  * prehabilitation, rehabilitation and lifestyle medicine
  * The project is expected to create 1,550 construction jobs.
This is another example of the Minns Labor Government delivering the vital infrastructure needed to support housing growth and create better communities.
The Minns Labor Government has a massive $30 billion per year infrastructure program – that’s $81 million a day - building the roads, schools, hospitals, water and transport for communities.
After the Coalition failed to deliver or properly fund major hospital projects in Western Sydney, the Minns Labor Government is making record investments to deliver more hospitals, more beds and better services.
**The Minns Labor Government is investing $12.4 billion to deliver 32 new or upgraded hospitals, including:**
  * $910 million for the new Rouse Hill Hospital, which includes a $120 million contribution from the
  * Commonwealth Government – which the Liberals promised at three elections and failed to deliver;
  * $2 billion for the new Bankstown Hospital – which the Liberals promised in 2019 and failed to deliver;
  * $630 million for the Fairfield Hospital Redevelopment, which includes a $80 million contribution from the Commonwealth Government;
  * $350 million for the Canterbury Hospital Redevelopment;
  * $120 million for additional beds for Blacktown and Mount Druitt Hospitals.
For more information visit: [ "Rouse Hill Hospital").
**Deputy Premier and Minister for Western Sydney Prue Car said:**
“The Minns Labor Government is getting on with the job of delivering Rouse Hill Hospital for families in Sydney’s North West who waited too long after years of Liberal broken promises.
“This hospital will deliver the essential health infrastructure local residents deserve, including a full emergency department and comprehensive birthing services, which were missing under the former government’s inadequate plans, which they never delivered.
“This vital project is part of Labor’s record investment to deliver more hospitals, more beds and better services for families in Sydney’s growing west.”
**Minister for Health Ryan Park said:**
"This is a significant milestone and another step forward for the new Rouse Hill hospital, something the community has been waiting too long for.
“The Coalition’s failure to deliver on major hospital projects left parts of the state without whole hospitals, health systems under pressure, and jeopardised health services for local communities.
“The Minns Labor Government is making record investments to deliver more hospitals and more beds to meet the health needs of more patients in our growing communities.”
**Minister for Planning and Public Spaces Paul Scully said:**
“The new $910 million Rouse Hill Hospital will provide north west Sydney with much needed health services that were promised by the former Liberal National Government but never delivered.
“It’s taken the Minns Labor Government to move it from a promise to delivery.”
**Member for Riverstone Warren Kirby said:**
“Sydney’s north west were left out to dry by the former Government but where they failed the Minns Labor Government are getting on with the job.
“This approval is another exciting step forward for the project which will provide vital health services to the growing community for decades to come.”
**Federal Member for Greenway Michelle Rowland said:**
“I’m thrilled that families in my community are one step closer to having the high-quality hospital they deserve, close to home.
“This important milestone is a testament to how federal and state Labor are continuing to deliver for the North West, particularly after a decade of Liberal neglect.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
22 April 2026
Almost one year since construction began, the Cessnock Hospital Redevelopment is taking shape, with significant work underway to set the foundations for the Hospital’s new acute services building.
Ministerial media release
14 April 2026
Artist impressions of the new Bombala Multi-Purpose Service (MPS) expansion have been released, offering the community its first look at the new purpose-built health facility that will enhance aged care accommodation and health services.
Ministerial media release
29 October 2025
The first of two tower cranes has been installed at the $526.8 million Ryde Hospital Redevelopment site to support construction of the new seven-level Acute Services Building (ASB).
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
