Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/mallanganee-observatory-opens

Ministerial media release
Published:
    24 April 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for the North Coast, Minister for Regional NSW
* * *
The Northern Rivers has a new star in its tourism crown with the official opening of the Mallanganee Observatory-Lookout. 
Situated on the crest of the Richmond Range, the observatory is set to transform the region into a premier destination for ‘dark sky’ tourism.
Positioned on the precise latitude where the centre of the Milky Way crosses directly overhead daily, the site offers a celestial experience unlike any other on Earth.
Designed by award-winning firm _Terrior,_ the facility features a striking armillary-like sphere of galvanised steel and pre-cast concrete. The design’s global significance was recently recognised when it was shortlisted at the World Architecture Festival.
The $3.33 million project was made possible through a $2.067 million investment from the NSW Government’s Regional Tourism Activation Fund, with Kyogle Council contributing $1.267 million.
**Minister for Regional NSW Tara Moriarty said:**
“The Northern Rivers has a new star in its tourism crown with the official opening of the Mallanganee Observatory-Lookout. By investing in unique landmarks like this, the NSW Government is ensuring our regional communities have the world-class infrastructure they need to thrive.
“This project is a prime example of how we are delivering high-impact results for Western and Regional NSW.
“By leveraging Mallanganee’s unique celestial position, we are diversifying the local economy, and giving people a compelling reason to visit and stay in our vibrant regions.
“Whether you are a local or a visitor, standing beneath the centre of the Milky Way at this award-winning facility is a powerful reminder of the innovation and beauty found in our regional backyard.”
**Minister for the North Coast and Member for Lismore said:**
‘I backed this exciting project from the start, appreciating its destination tourism potential for the Kyogle community and the broader region.
“No other outlook in the world can claim this unique positioning, underneath the centre of the Milky Way – this truly puts Mallanganee on the global tourism map.
“The economic ripple effect will be felt by every small business from Mallanganee to Tenterfield.
“We are transforming this unique natural asset into a reliable economic engine - one that drives year-round foot traffic and sustains permanent local employment for years to come.”
**Kyogle Mayor Danielle Mulholland OAM said:**
“From the seed of an idea, came a project that will deliver benefits to not only Mallanganee but the surrounding villages.
“There are some avid astronomers across Australia and the Mallanganee Observatory is expertly designed to take advantage of the numerous constellations in the night sky.
“As Council starts to digitise attractions across the Council area, highlighting places of interest and taking advantage of the visitor economy, we expect to see an increase in tourism.
“This is a great investment by the State Government and Kyogle Council into the village of Mallanganee and its future**.”**
* * *
Ministerial media release
23 April 2026
Kristie Ivone, founder of Boas Language Academy, a social enterprise language school in Albury Wodonga, has been announced as the state winner of the 2026 NSW/ACT AgriFutures Rural Women’s Award last night at an awards ceremony held at NSW Parliament House.
Ministerial media release
23 April 2026
The Minns Labor Government is progressing the important work of the NSW Independent Biosecurity Commissioner into reviewing the state’s Cattle Tick Program by announcing a significant boost to the program, by investing $7 million to rebuild the program to better protect the state’s livestock industry.
Ministerial media release
23 April 2026
The Minns Labor Government has supported 178 essential workers to relocate to the Northern Rivers through The Welcome Experience program due to this success we are now expanding the services to additional areas to rebuild essential services across the Northern Rivers.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
