Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/23-retailers-closed-targeted-tobacco-and-vaping-blitz

Ministerial media release
Published:
    24 April 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for the Central Coast, Minister for Health, Minister for Police and Counter-terrorism
* * *
Twenty-three retailers on the Central Coast have been shut immediately for 90 days during a joint operation led by NSW Health with support from NSW Police and the Australian Border Force to disrupt the supply of illicit tobacco and vapes in the region.
While implementing the closure orders at the 23 retailers on the Central Coast this week, NSW Health inspectors found and seized approximately 836,000 illicit cigarettes, 120kg of loose-leaf tobacco and 5200 illicit vapes, as well as 800 nicotine pouches.
Further investigations will follow and additional enforcement action, including prosecution, may take place.
This activity marks a significant milestone for tobacco and vaping control in NSW, with NSW Health inspectors issuing 214 short-term closure orders since the new powers came into effect in November 2025.
Under the November 2025 laws, NSW Health supported by NSW Police can make short-term closure orders of up to 90 days for premises selling illicit tobacco, illegal vaping goods, or selling tobacco without a licence.
The operation on the Central Coast forms part of the ABF’s illicit tobacco National Disruption Group, which brings together 29 State and Commonwealth agencies to identify and disrupt illicit tobacco networks that threaten Australian borders.
Retailers who are found to be non-compliant with closure orders may be subject to further enforcement action or penalties. A NSW Local Court can issue a long-term closure order of up to one year if it is satisfied that illicit tobacco or illicit vaping goods have been or are likely to be sold, or if tobacco or non-tobacco smoking products are sold without a licence.
The current rate of the federal tobacco excise is $1.53 per stick.
A full list of current tobacco closures can be found on the [**NSW Health website**](
Members of the public can lodge complaints about retailers they believe are doing the wrong thing via the [**reporting portal on the NSW Health website.**](
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Health, Ryan Park:**
“This week our team at NSW Health closed 23 stores on the Central Coast. This is the most retailers we’ve shut in a single week since the new powers came into force in November last year.
“So long as the significant disparity between the cost in legal and illegal tobacco remains, we will continue to see the prevalence of illegal tobacco in our communities and we will continue to play whack-a-mole with bad actors.
“Our inspectors actively monitor retailers, and if we find that you are continuing to sell these illicit products after being served a closure order, we will shut you down again and you will face further penalties.”
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Police Yasmin Catley:**
“What is abundantly clear is that NSW Police is working with NSW Health and Border Force to take the fight to the illicit tobacco and vape trade on the Central Coast.
“This is strong police work, plain and simple - shutting down illegal operators, seizing illicit stock and disrupting the trade that fuels broader criminal activity”.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Central Coast David Harris:**
“I know how frustrated communities across the Central Coast are with these bad actors and I hope this sends a strong message to those who do the wrong thing.”
**Quotes attributable to NSW Health Chief Health Officer, Dr Kerry Chant:**
“The operation in the Central Coast this week is a great example of the cooperation between State and Commonwealth enforcement agencies to disrupt the supply of unlawful tobacco and vaping products and to protect public health.
“These closures show that our teams are ready to act swiftly and are committed to tacking illicit tobacco and illegal trade in NSW.
“Seizures figures are not the only indicator of success. While they are a disruption tool, intelligence and inspection activity indicate retailers are reacting to our efforts and changing their methods, with less product now found stored at retail sites.”
**Quotes attributable to NSW Police Force State Crime Command’s Director of Crime Operations, Detective Chief Superintendent Grant Taylor:**
“Collaborative enforcement activity allows NSW Health and other regulatory agencies to carry out their work with the appropriate policing support in place.
“NSW Police Force will continue to provide that support to ensure compliance around illicit tobacco and ultimately protect the community from its harm.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
24 April 2026
A world-first cancer research project that uses AI-powered technology for pinpoint accuracy to reduce the toxic side-effects of radiotherapy and a project to replace invasive tissue biopsies with a simple blood test are recipients of $7.5 million in Minns Labor Government research grants.
Ministerial media release
23 April 2026
The Minns Labor Government’s landmark ADHD reforms have helped New South Wales families save roughly $10 million each year in out-of-pocket fees to access scripts for ADHD medication, according to analysis by the Royal College of General Practitioners (RACGP).
Ministerial media release
22 April 2026
Cessnock Hospital has now begun rostering to Safe Staffing Levels in the emergency department (ED), as the NSW Government continues to deliver on its promise to deliver the historic staffing reform.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
