<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://press.un.org/en/2026/sga2416.doc.htm

[](
[Biographical Note](
SG/A/2416
26 May 2026
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres announced today the appointment of Mohamed El-Amine Souef of the Comoros as his new Special Representative for Central Africa and Head of the United Nations Regional Office for Central Africa (UNOCA). He succeeds Abdou Abarry of Niger, to whom the Secretary-General is grateful for his important contribution and service to UNOCA.
Mr. Souef brings 35 years of experience in the areas of diplomacy, foreign affairs and peacekeeping. Since March 2025, he has served as Chief of Staff of the African Union Commission. Previously, from 2022 to 2025, he was the Special Representative of the Chairperson of the African Union for Somalia and Head of the African Union Support and Stabilization Mission in Somalia (AUSSOM), and its predecessor, the African Union Transition Mission in Somalia (ATMIS).
Prior to joining the African Union, Mr. Souef served in the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) from 2020 to 2022 and 2015 to 2017, and the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) from 2011 to 2015.
Mr. Souef has held various leadership positions in the Government of the Comoros, including Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation from 2017 to 2020 and 1999 to 2005; Permanent Representative of the Comoros to the United Nations in 2006; Member of Parliament at the National Assembly in 2002; Ambassador of the Comoros to Egypt and Permanent Representative to the League of Arab States between 1994 and 1998, and Adviser to the President of the Comoros from 1992 to 1994.
Mr. Souef holds a post-graduate diploma of Advanced Studies in Modern Literature from Sidi Mohamed Ben Abdellah University in Fez, Morocco, and a bachelor’s degree in Language and Literature from the University of Medina in Saudi Arabia. He also attended diplomatic training at the Institute for Diplomatic Studies of Egypt in 1991 and the Foreign Service Academy of Islamabad, Pakistan from 1991 to 1992. He is the author of six books on politics and geopolitics. In addition to his native Comorian, he is fluent in Arabic, English, French and Swahili.
[Africa](
For information media. Not an official record.
=======
Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/65-million-investment-and-more-than-200-new-jobs-parkes

Ministerial media release
Published:
    28 May 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for Regional NSW
[ Listen ]( "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")
* * *
The Parkes Special Activation Precinct is set for a major economic boost, with three companies planning to establish operations in the precinct in a move expected to generate $65 million in private investment and more than 100 new permanent jobs for the region.
A further 100 jobs will be created during the construction and establishment phase, in what is expected to be one of the largest and most significant local investments in many years.
Attracting these businesses to the Parkes Precinct is part of the Minns Government’s plan to grow regional economies and create new local high value jobs across regional NSW.
The three businesses are:
  * **Soul Origin** - proposing a cold storage, warehousing and distribution centre
  * **Ecotech Enviro** - proposing operations that will process raw steel materials into fabricated steel components for use in construction, infrastructure and industrial projects
  * **Maya Recycling** - proposing an advanced plastic recycling facility to process mixed plastic waste and convert it into higher value products.
The businesses have recently exchanged contracts securing land within the Parkes Precinct and will now progress through the required planning and approvals processes prior to land settlement.
It is expected that the businesses will be operational from 2029.
These latest investments signal the Parkes Precinct continued rise as a hub for employment, logistics and industry, adding to the momentum within the Precinct and its contribution to regional communities and local economies.
The Parkes Precinct is now home to 12 businesses, who are all working to contribute to job creation and economic growth.
The Parkes Precinct land release drew strong interest from both national and international businesses, seeking industrial land capable of supporting a diverse range of industries.
This expansion of the Parkes Precinct represents a significant step toward unlocking new industry, investment, and employment opportunities for the region.
For further information please visit: [Parkes Special Activation Precinct](
**Minister for Regional NSW, Tara Moriarty said:**
“This marks an important step forward for the Parkes Precinct. This investment will continue to help attract new industries, create jobs and strengthen economic opportunities for the region.
“The strong response to the latest land release shows that industry has real confidence in the future of the Parkes Precinct. These developments will help unlock new investment and deliver lasting benefits for the community.
“From cold storage to recycling and resource recovery, the businesses joining the Precinct reflect the diverse and sustainable industries we want to see growing in this region.
**Soul Origin Australia representative said:**
“As Soul Origin continues to scale nationally across both retail and manufacturing, we are investing significantly into infrastructure, innovation, and supply chain capability to support the next phase of growth across Australia and New Zealand.
“Central locations such as Parkes represents an exciting opportunity due to its strategic location, logistics connectivity, and future scalability, making it a compelling location to support future operational expansion as the business continues to evolve.”
**Ecotech Enviro, General Manager, Alex Soukie said:**
“Parkes has emerged as a key location of interest due to its connectivity, infrastructure investment, and alignment with our long-term development objectives.
“We believe our investment will support the economic growth of the region through job creation, local procurement, and long-term operational presence.
“Ecotech Enviro will produce fabricated steel components, structural steel assemblies, truck bodies, and custom steel products for use in construction, infrastructure, and industrial projects. The finished products will be supplied to construction and infrastructure projects across NSW and regional areas.
**Maya Recycling, Director, Vishal Patel said:**
“A key driver for Maya Recycling investment in Parkes is the precinct’s strategic location, strong infrastructure, and streamlined planning framework, which provide a solid foundation for delivering large-scale circular economy projects.
“Maya Recycling is committed to employment and workforce development, prioritising hiring from the Central West. Our support for local suppliers and contractors during construction and operation will contribute to regional economic growth.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
27 May 2026
Local government workers will now be supported through the Minns Labor Government’s Welcome Experience program, helping them settle into essential jobs in regional local councils such as road maintenance, town planning, engineering and childcare services for communities.
Ministerial media release
27 May 2026
For the first time in more than 40 years, NSW Government’s Department of Primary Industries and Regional Development (DPIRD) scientists are collaborating on a national program to identify elite chickpea rhizobia inoculant strains, helping farmers reduce synthetic nitrogen fertiliser use in crops.
Ministerial media release
26 May 2026
The Minns Labor Government is delivering on its election commitment to support Landcare NSW initiatives, with 22 projects across the state receiving a share of $10 million in grant funding through the Landcare Enabling Program.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
