Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/minns-government-boosting-western-nsws-workforce-participation-176-additional-childcare-places

Ministerial media release
Published:
    15 May 2026 
Released by:
    Deputy Premier, Minister for Agriculture, Minister for Education and Early Learning, Minister for Regional NSW
* * *
The Minns Labor Government is boosting the workforce in Western NSW by investing an additional $4.9 million into early childhood education and care services into the high need locations of Carrathool, Hay and Warrumbungle Shires.
The upgrades and expansion work, funded through the Government’s Regional Development Trust, will deliver 176 additional childcare places and 26 new jobs.
Childcare shortages in Western NSW place increasing strain on essential worker employment and reduce opportunities for parents and carers to return to work, education or training.
The childcare availability in these three LGAs are amongst the lowest in NSW. The Minns Government is continuing to support regional communities and families by addressing significant childcare shortages to improve workforce participation and build essential services.
This latest funding builds on the success of the $5.6 million announced in November 2024, which is creating more than 150 additional childcare places in Broken Hill, Bourke and Cobar.
The Regional Development Trust will provide the funding to the following services:
  * **Hay Children’s Services Incorporated** - **$1,843,794** to undertake a full renovation and fit-out of its early learning centre to double its capacity, creating 15 new jobs and adding 120 extra childcare places.
  * **Riverina Children’s Activity Van Inc.** - **$1,312,548** to provide mobile services in Goolgowi and deliver a purpose-built demountable at Rankins Springs Primary School for Early Childhood Education and Care, creating two new jobs and providing 16 extra places in Goolgowi and Rankins Springs Preschools.
  * **Dunedoo Pre-school Kindergarten Inc.** - **$755,450** to expand its storage shed and upgrade play equipment, kitchen and laundry facilities, and will create three new jobs and add 12 extra places.
  * **Warrumbungle Shire Council** - **$636,000** to expanding its Connect Five mobile early education service from fortnightly to weekly and upgrade its fleet vehicle and storage facility, creating five new jobs and adding 20 extra places.
  * **Baradine Preschool Inc.** - **$388,050** to refurbish its facility to offer an Out of School Hours Care program in the morning and afternoon for children in primary school, creating one new job and adding eight extra places.
The Minns Government’s plan to rebuild the workforce in regional NSW is being addressed through a range of programs such as this Western Workforce Activation Program focusing on making extra childcare spaces available, and The Welcome Experience that’s attracting essential workers to make the move to regional towns.
**Deputy Premier, Minister for Education and Early Learning Prue Car said:**
“Access to quality childcare should not depend on where you live, and this investment will help more families in Western NSW access the early learning services they need close to home.
“These additional childcare places will make a real difference for parents and carers who want to return to work, study or training, while also helping local businesses and essential services attract and keep staff.
“By expanding and upgrading early childhood education services across Carrathool, Hay and Warrumbungle Shires, we are creating jobs, supporting regional communities and helping rebuild the workforce in Western NSW.
“The Minns Labor Government is committed to ensuring regional families have access to the same opportunities and essential services as families anywhere else in the state.”
**Minister for Agriculture and Regional NSW Tara Moriarty said:**
“This Minns Government funding will deliver real improvements for families in Carrathool, Hay and Warrumbungle Shires, helping local early childhood services expand capacity and better meet community demand.
“Access to quality childcare is essential for strong regional communities, and these upgrades will support families where it is needed most, and at the same time help us rebuild essential services with the additional workers we need.
“Childcare shortages limit workforce participation and by investing in expanded facilities, service improvements and workforce development, the Minns Government is helping parents and carers return to work, education or training while supporting local employers that are keen for workers.”
**Emily Perkins, General Manager, Hay Children's Services said:**
“Hay Children’s Services is proud to share it has been awarded funding through the Western NSW Workforce Activation Program, a significant investment that will support the expansion of our Early Learning Centre and strengthen the delivery of early childhood education and care across our community.
“This funding will enable us to increase capacity, improve facilities, and create a more engaging and supportive environment for children, while also supporting the attraction and retention of a skilled local workforce.
“We recognise the importance of this initiative in addressing regional workforce challenges and are committed to ensuring more families in Hay and the surrounding region have access to high-quality, accessible early learning services.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
15 May 2026
Students and staff have welcomed the opening of the new Forest High School, as the Minns Labor Government delivers on its promise to build world-class infrastructure across NSW.
Ministerial media release
14 May 2026
For the first time, every NSW public high school will be able to offer the most academically demanding HSC courses with a new HSC Subject Guarantee, as the Minns Labor Government continues to grow the Inspire High Potential and Gifted Education program.
Ministerial media release
8 May 2026
New rules requiring early learning services to undertake strict screening checks and verify suitability to work with children are now in place as part of the Minns Labor Government reforms to keep children safe.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
