Story's url: https://climate.copernicus.eu/ten-charts-discover-european-state-climate-2025-report

Date: 29th April 2026
**Europe is Earth’s fastest-warming continent. In 2025, the continent saw record heatwaves from the Mediterranean to the Arctic, over land and in the ocean. As the climate warms, impacts are widespread – from loss of glacier ice to widespread drought, and impacts on biodiversity.**
**The European State of the Climate (ESOTC) 2025 offers an overview of the climate during the previous year through a detailed analysis of key climate variables. In addition to the numerous visuals highlighted in the report, one of the additional resources available is the ‘**[**Graphics gallery**]( featuring****142****charts and maps, plus a set of eight infographics. For each, the images and the corresponding data are freely and openly available to download. Here we describe a selection of the charts and graphics to illustrate the variety presented in**[**the report**](
Europe is warming more than twice as fast as the global average. This edition of the report, issued jointly by the Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S), implemented by the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), and the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), starts with an overview of why Europe is warming faster than all the other continents. A map is included that shows the trend in annual surface air temperature over the last thirty years. The graphic, based on the flagship reanalysis dataset from C3S, [ERA5]( highlights that the rate of warming also varies within Europe, with eastern Europe warming faster than western Europe, while the Arctic is the fastest-warming region on Earth.
[ PNG ]( [ High-res PDF ]( [ Data ](
_Trend in annual surface air temperature (°C/decade) for 1996–2025. Data: ERA5. Credit: C3S/ECMWF._
At least 95% of Europe saw above-average temperatures in 2025. This map, included in the ‘[Temperature]( section of the report, reveals the areas that experienced their warmest annual temperature on record. Overall, several northern countries saw their warmest (United Kingdom, Norway and Ireland) or second warmest (Ireland, Sweden and Finland) year on record. A large proportion of the continent saw warmer or much warmer-than-average temperatures. Only a few small areas saw close-to-average or slightly cooler-than-average temperatures.
[ PNG ]( [ High-res PDF ]( [ Data ](
_Anomalies and extremes in annual surface air temperature in 2025. The extreme categories (‘coolest’ and ‘warmest’) are based on rankings for 1979–2025. The other categories describe how the temperatures compare to their distribution during the 1991–2020 reference period. ‘Much cooler/warmer than average’ - cooler/warmer than 90% of temperatures. ‘Cooler/warmer than average’ - than 66% of temperatures. ‘Near average’ - within the middle 33%. Data: ERA5. Credit: C3S/ECMWF._
In 2025, there was a record low number of cold stress days in Europe, and 90% of the region saw fewer days than average with at least ‘strong’ cold stress. The report highlights that, for Europe as a whole, the number of heat stress days is increasing, and 2025 saw extreme heatwaves from the Mediterranean to the Arctic Circle, including Europe’s second most severe heatwave on record. The chart below, included in the ‘[Thermal stress‘]( section, shows the long-term increase in heat stress and reduction of cold stress in Europe.
[ PNG ]( [ High-res PDF ]( [ Data ](
_Annual average number of days with at least ‘strong’, ‘very strong’ or ‘extreme’ heat stress, annual average number of tropical nights, and annual average number of days with at least ‘strong’, ‘very strong’ or ‘extreme’ cold stress for WMO RA VI (Europe), from 1980–2025. The thresholds for ‘strong’, ‘very strong’ and ‘extreme’ heat stress are 32°C, 38°C and 46°C, respectively, and for ‘strong’, ‘very strong’ and ‘extreme’ cold stress are -13°C, -27°C and -40°C, based on the Universal Thermal Climate Index (UTCI). Tropical nights are those during which the temperature does not fall below 20°C. Data: ERA5-HEAT. Credit: C3S/ECMWF._
The annual average sea surface temperature (SST) for the European region was the highest on record for the fourth consecutive year. The ‘[Ocean]( section of the report offers analysis and a set of visuals highlighting the evolution of SST since 1982, and for the first time includes new analysis on marine heatwaves across the region and changes over time. The proportion of the region affected by marine heatwaves has increased over recent decades, with a record 86% experiencing at least ‘strong’ marine heatwave conditions in 2025.
[ PNG ]( [ High-res PDF ]( [ Data ](
_(Left) Percentage of the area of the WMO RA VI (Europe) ocean region experiencing marine heatwave conditions each year from 1982 to 2025, shown for four intensity categories: ‘moderate’ (yellow), ‘strong’ (light orange), ‘severe’ (dark orange) and ‘extreme’ (brown). For each year, the percentage is based on the highest intensity reached at each location within the region. (Right) Map showing the highest marine heatwave category experienced at each location during 2025. Marine heatwaves are defined relative to the 1991–2020 reference period. Data: C3S Global Sea and Sea Ice Surface Temperature v1.0. Credit: DMI/C3S/ECMWF._
As the climate warms, heatwaves are becoming more frequent. In 2025, a long and intense heatwave affected sub-Arctic Fennoscandia from mid-July to early August. Lasting 21 days and with temperatures reaching or exceeding 30ºC, it was the longest and most severe on record for the region. A ‘[Spotlight]( section of the report discusses this heatwave in detail. A dedicated infographic, shown below, is contained in the [ESOTC 2025 Summary](
[ Original image ]( [ High-res PDF ]( [ Data map ]( [ Data ranking ](
_Infographic for the ‘Long heatwave in sub-Arctic Fennoscandia’ section of ESOTC 2025, highlighting key graphics and messages associated with the heatwave._
ESOTC 2025 includes a new section dedicated to analysis and discussion of the [Greenland Ice Sheet ]( 2025 and long-term trends for the ice sheets. The ‘[Snow]( section also includes newly available datasets to expand the analysis and provide additional perspectives. Alongside sections on ‘[Glaciers]( and ‘[Arctic sea ice]( the report gives a comprehensive picture of our changing cryosphere.
The Greenland Ice Sheet lost around 139 Gt (139 billion tonnes) of ice in the 2025 hydrological year (1 October 2024–30 September 2025), raising the global mean sea level by 0.4 mm. This net mass loss is equivalent to about 1.5 times the amount of ice stored in all the glaciers in the European Alps. 2025 was the 29th consecutive year of net mass loss from the Greenland Ice Sheet, and the loss was about 9% below the annual average. The visual below is an excerpt of one of the infographics contained in the ESOTC 2025 Summary, featuring key findings about mass change in European glacier regions.
[ Original image ]( [ High-res PDF ]( [ Data ](
_Infographic with some of the key data and messages about the shrinking ice and snow cover in Europe’s cold environments. The line chart shows the cumulative glacier mass change (Gt) for European glacier regions from 1976 to 2025. Gt = gigatonnes = 1 billion tonnes. Data: WGMS. Credit: WGMS/C3S/ECMWF. The map illustrates Greenland Ice Sheet ice flow velocity for the 2025 hydrological year. Data: IMBIEPROMICE, ENVEO. Credit: ENVEO/GEUS/C3S/ECMWF._
[ PNG ]( [ High-res PDF ]( [ Data ](
_Climate stripes ( of annual glacier mass changes for hydrological years from 1976 to 2025. The positive (blue) and negative (red) annual net mass changes in metre water equivalent are shown for all major regions globally. Data: WGMS. Credit: C3S/ECMWF/WGMS._
This year, for the first time, the report looks at the snow cover across Europe. In addition to fewer snow days than average for most of the continent, the report looked at the peak 2025 snow cover, which takes place in March. During March 2025, the snow-covered area in Europe was 31% below the 1991–2020 average of 4.24 million km2, the third lowest snow extent since 1983 and not far from the lowest value, observed at 36% below average in 2020, and the second lowest of 32% below average in 1990. The data also show the snow mass anomaly that was 45% below average in 2025 at 154 Gt (154 billion tonnes).
[ PNG ]( [ High-res PDF ]( [ Data ](
Renewables provided nearly half of Europe’s electricity in 2025, with solar power setting a new contribution record, at 12.5%. Considering solar, wind and hydropower together, renewables have generated more electricity than fossil fuels every year since 2023.
In 2025, there was a mixed picture for climate-driven potential for power generation from solar PV, with above-average potential in a swathe from northwestern to central and eastern Europe, and below-average potential in much of southern and parts of northern Europe. This generally reflects the sunshine and solar radiation conditions. In contrast, potential power generation from onshore wind was generally below average, reflecting below-average wind conditions across the continent. Despite this, wind power contributed 18% of Europe’s total actual electricity generation, only slightly below the share in 2024 (18.4%) and 2023 (18.2%), reflecting the fact that weaker winds were at least partially offset by increased installed onshore wind capacity in Europe.
[ PNG ]( [ High-res PDF ]( [ Data ](
_Percentage of the total actual annual electricity generation for Europe, from solar (yellow), wind (purple) and hydro (blue) power, alongside the total contribution from renewables (green) and the total contribution from fossil fuels (brown), for 2016–2025. The remaining proportion in 2025 came from nuclear (22%) and bioenergy (4%) (not shown). The definition of Europe used here is the EU27 and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Moldova, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Norway, Serbia, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Data: Ember. Credit: Rabobank/C3S/ECMWF._
Most of Europe saw above-average sunshine duration in 2025, with the Iberian Peninsula, together with parts of the western Mediterranean, western Russia and much of the Baltic states being the exception. Overall, there is an increasing trend in solar radiation and a decreasing trend in cloud cover for Europe.
[ PNG ]( [ High-res PDF ]( [ Data ](
_Sunshine duration anomalies (hours) over Europe for 2025, relative to the average for the 1991–2020 reference period. Grey hatching in the top right corner of the map indicates missing data. Data: CM SAF SARAH-3 CDR/ICDR. Credit: C3S/ECMWF/DWD/EUMETSAT_
[Read the Summary ]( [Read the full report](
[Visit the gallery](  
[ Back to top  ](
* * *
[ESOTC 2025 Overview](
[ESOTC 2025 Report](
[ESOTC 2025 Executive summary](
[ESOTC 2025 Graphics gallery](
