Story's url: https://joint-research-centre.ec.europa.eu/jrc-news-and-updates/innovative-techniques-what-works-best-making-energy-intensive-industries-more-sustainable-2026-06-01_en

© JT Jeeraphun - stock.adobe.com
A new analysis has identified and mapped 563 demonstrator projects on market-ready or nearly ready innovative techniques, capable to reduce the environmental impact of energy intensive industries (EII) in the EU. Though investigating projects for more than 10 EII sectors, the analysis took a deeper look into two priority sectors: **iron and steel (IS)** , and **cement, lime and magnesium oxide (CLM)**. 
The two were selected for their high emission intensity, strategic importance for EU competitiveness, and the significant volume of mature decarbonising innovations needing a scale-up. The results are published today, in the first report of [EU Innovation Centre for Industrial Transformation and Emissions (INCITE)]( launched in October 2024 and operated by the JRC. 
The INCITE team carried out a systematic screening from multiple sources – across all EII sectors – to capture techniques on:
  * decarbonisation;
  * depollution (emissions to air, water and soil);
  * resource efficiency (materials, water and energy);
  * circular economy performance (use of secondary resources, fewer/safe chemicals). 
While decarbonisation is the dominant driver for 71% of projects, these pilots also increasingly deliver benefits in both depollution and circularity. 
The analysis showed that **technology priorities** of the projects are **hydrogen use** , **circularity** and **energy efficiency** , while the technology readiness level (TRL 8 and 9) indicated 40% are mature technologies. Innovation activities appear to be primarily concentrated in western and central Europe.
By adopting innovative techniques, such as hydrogen-based steelmaking or low-clinker cement, Europe can cut pollution and enhance resource efficiency simultaneously. This transition is essential for securing Europe’s strategic autonomy and long-term economic resilience.
The analysis shows that innovation is highly concentrated in three sectors: **iron and steel** , **chemicals (including fertilisers)** , and **cement, lime and magnesia**. These industries account for 65% of all identified demonstrator projects. Most projects have reached high maturity levels, with many demonstrated in operational environments or ready for the market. 
Though ranking second in number of innovative demonstrator projects, the chemical sector wasn’t selected for deeper analysis in this first report due to its wider spectrum. Focusing on technologies in the **iron and steel,** and **cement, lime, and magnesia** sectors offers massive benefits. These two industries jointly account for more than 40% of greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions from all EU energy-intensive industries, and 9% of EU’s total GHG emissions. 
They are also among the largest emitters of conventional air pollutants. At the same time, iron and steel form the material backbone of critical European value chains, while cement, lime and magnesium oxide underpin the EU’s infrastructure. 
In addition, the two show advanced deployment of breakthrough decarbonisation and depollution technologies. They account for 43% of all identified demonstrator projects. Finally, current rules for setting permit conditions on emission levels from the two industries’ facilities are from 2012 and 2013 respectively and up for revision. These are known as [Best Available Techniques Reference Documents (BREFs)](
BREFs represent a unique connection between industrial innovation and norm-making which ensures that EU standards reflect the cutting edge of technology. Ultimately, this framework supports industrial frontrunners while maintaining Europe’s competitive edge in the global tech market.
[Technical Report on Innovative Techniques (TRIT)](
[INCITE frontloading report for the Best Available Technique Reference document for iron and steel production](
[Innovation Centre for Industrial Transformation and Emissions (INCITE)](
[Industrial Emissions Directive 2.0 Framework](
Publication date
1 June 2026 
Author
    [Joint Research Centre]( 
JRC portfolios 2025-27
  * General publications
  * 11 March 2026
[Industrial decarbonisation in the EU: what emerging technologies need funding?](
3 min read
  * General publications
  * 18 December 2025
[What opportunities does Europe have to lead in advanced materials?](
4 min read
  * General publications
  * 16 December 2025
[New guidance supporting safety testing of manufactured nanomaterials](
5 min read
  * General publications
  * 1 December 2025
[Human-centric research: the largest dataset of human biology-based models launched](
3 min read
Share this page 
