Story's url: https://www.environment.nsw.gov.au/news/hazard-reduction-burns-across-south-coast-national-parks

08 May 2026 
Department media release Hazard reduction burn Jervis Bay National Park Conjola National Park Murramarang National Park National Parks and Wildlife Service Fire News and media releases
National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS) will be conducting multiple hazard reduction burns in national parks across the South Coast from Saturday 9 May to Tuesday 12 May, weather permitting.
Five burns are planned within Jervis Bay National Park, Conjola National Park and Murramarang National Park, covering approximately 138 hectares.
The hazard reduction burns are located near Hyams Beach, Vincentia, Swanhaven, Sussex Inlet and South Durras and smoke will be visible across the surrounding towns and villages.
The hazard reduction burns aim to protect the community and the public by reducing the spread of potential bushfires across the South Coast.
Public access to burn areas will be closed, including all tracks and trails within and surrounding the burn areas. These will be reopened once they have been assessed as safe.
Traffic management and signage will be in place on roads adjacent to the burn areas to manage smoke impacts and ensure public safety. This includes:
  * **South Durras:** Durras Drive
  * **Hyams Beach:** Aster, Rose, Tulip and Cyrus Streets
  * **Swanhaven:** Hoffman Drive
  * **Sussex Inlet:** Medlyn Avenue, Springs Road, Justfield Drive and Thomson Street
  * **Vincentia:** McNamara Court and Woden, Berry Albion and Montague Streets
Drivers are reminded to drive to conditions and are advised to take care if visibility is reduced by smoke and follow any signs.
People with known health conditions can sign up to receive air quality reports, forecasts and alerts via [email or SMS from the Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water(link is external)](
For health information relating to smoke from bushfires and hazard reduction burns, visit [NSW Health(link is external)]( or 
More information on hazard reduction activities is available at [NSW Rural Fire Service(link is external)]( and the NSW Government's [Hazards Near Me website and app(link is external)](
Contact us
**Media**
Email: 
