Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/ministerial-releases/12-million-unlocked-to-deliver-infrastructure-regional-communities

Ministerial media release
Published:
    28 May 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for Planning and Public Spaces, Minister for Regional NSW
* * *
The Minns Labor Government has unlocked another $12 million to help regional communities accelerate housing delivery with the opening of round five of the Low-Cost Loans initiative.
The program which is now open to all 95 regional councils across NSW will provide financial support for crucial infrastructure projects such as roads, intersections, water and sewer upgrades.
The upfront cost of infrastructure is one of the biggest barriers to new housing, so we’re helping councils across regional NSW overcome that with low-cost loans.
For the first time the program has also been expanded to include Rous County Council, Riverina Water County Council, Goldenfields Water County Council, and Central Tablelands Water County Council.
Under the competitive grants program, the NSW Government will cover up to 50 per cent of interest costs on eligible loans, helping councils bring forward projects that unlock new homes sooner.
Examples of projects which have previously been supported include:
  * Wollongong City Council – $3.2 million towards the $28 million upgrade of West Dapto Road, from Yard Street to Darkes Road, accelerating delivery of 1500 new homes in Council's West Dapto Urban Release Area.
  * Port Macquarie Council - $7 million towards the $152 million construction of the new Cowarra Water Treatment Plant to support more than 5,300 homes.
  * Forbes Shire Council – $153, 536 towards a $6.7 million project to deliver master planning and critical infrastructure upgrades for the Edward Street subdivision in Forbes, supporting the land release for 223 new homes. Works include new roads, drainage, lighting, water and sewer reticulation.
  * Griffith City Council – $111,041 towards a $12 million project to provide water, sewerage and electrical upgrades that will support 20 townhouses and 42 housing lots around Dave Taylor Park, in Griffith.
  * Berrigan Shire Council - $142,862 towards a $5.2 million upgrade to the Barooga Water Treatment Plant, helping to provide secure water supply to support future housing growth in the region.
Since the initiative launched, the NSW Government has committed more than $31.3 million to support more than $792 million in essential infrastructure projects statewide.
Applications open from today and will close at 5 pm on 31 August 2026. For more information or to apply, visit: [NSW Planning](
**Minister for Planning and Public Spaces Paul Scully said:**
“The Low Cost Loans Initiative helps councils right across rural and regional NSW deliver the essential infrastructure needed to support growing communities.
“It reduces borrowing costs, helping councils to fast-track the roads, water and sewer services they need.
"I encourage councils to apply so they can deliver the infrastructure they need to deliver more well‑located housing where it’s needed most.”
**Minister for Regional NSW Tara Moriarty said:**
“Regional communities need more new homes and the supporting infrastructure that makes more housing possible.”
“This initiative is helping councils invest in the essential services that support new housing while strengthening the long-term liveability of regional NSW.”
“By partnering with councils on infrastructure delivery, we’re creating more opportunities for people to live and work in our regional communities.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
27 May 2026
The Minns Labor Government will challenge housing providers to deliver the maximum amount of affordable housing on the former Forest High School site.
Ministerial media release
25 May 2026
The Minns Labor Government has established the new Bays West Delivery Authority to lead the development of the Bays West Precinct and Blackwattle Bay Precinct.
Ministerial media release
21 May 2026
The Minns Labor Government is delivering twelve new social homes in Wagga Wagga using Modern Methods of Construction (MMC) which will be ready for tenants to move in from June.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
