Story's url: https://climate.copernicus.eu/copernicus-climates-era6-reanalysis-production-starts

Date: 6th March 2026
**As the need for reliable and trustworthy climate information becomes more pressing, the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) has begun implementing the next generation of its reanalysis dataset, ERA6. The rollout of this flagship product from the Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) will proceed in several phases, with the first decades of data released towards the end of 2027. Among the numerous improvements, horizontal resolution of ERA6 will be more than twice as fine as ERA5.**
ERA6 is the result of almost a decade of research and development at ECMWF aimed at improving the representation and modeling of the Earth system—atmosphere, land, oceans, sea ice, and their interactions. This new generation reanalysis will provide hourly reconstructions of our climate from near-real time back to over 75 years, at higher resolution and with many enhanced parameters compared to its predecessor ERA5. Producing ERA6 is therefore a major scientific and technical challenge.
[ ERA6 ]( [ ERA5 ](
_ERA6 14 km (left) - ERA5 31 km (right)_
Based on the experience of previous ECMWF reanalysis versions, the deployment schedule is carefully designed with users in mind to manage the scale and complexity of the dataset while maintaining the operational workflow of ERA5 uninterrupted, as long as necessary. 
The production phase follows a thorough preparation and open evaluation phase, during which users had the opportunity to access experimental “
The first two decades will be deployed first, followed by backward extensions covering earlier decades. This phased release ensures that high‑demand, recent climate information becomes available as early as possible, while the full historical reconstruction continues to deepen over time.
Users will be able to download data from the first four decades by early 2028.
To illustrate what's possible: this image of the solar eclipse of 29 March 2006 over the Gulf of Guinea is not satellite imagery, but a reconstruction of how the eclipse would have looked from space if the Meteosat Third Generation satellite MTG had been already launched on that date.
[ ](
_This is what the FCI instrument on board MTG would have seen, according to ERA6, in case it would have been in orbit in 2006. Courtesy ECMWF/ Philippe Lopez_
The improvements and upgrades in the new reanalysis are extensive. ERA6 benefits from every upgrade made to the ECMWF Integrated Forecasting System (IFS) since ERA5 was deployed in 2016, 10 cycles from Cycle 41r2 (which underpinned ERA5) to the current Cycle 49r2 (which underpins ERA6). Each cycle has brought enhancements, upgrades, and corrections across many variables.
ERA6 also benefits from the improvements in computing power, storage, and data access of the last decade.
Some major features of ERA6 include:
  * **Improved user access to the data**
ERA5 data access has come a long way since the initial –and limited– data access possibilities. Currently, users can extract timeseries of the most popular parameters within seconds with solutions such as [ARCO ready]( versions. These developments will be available much faster in ERA6. Additionally, following our users’ requests, the 
  * **Enhanced horizontal resolution:**
ERA6 significantly enhances spatial resolution, the size of the cells in which we divide the Earth. In many components, horizontal resolution increases to approximately 14km, improving ERA5’s 31 km atmospheric resolution. This refinement allows for better representation of tropical cyclones and other mesoscale weather systems, coastal processes, and land–atmosphere interactions.
_Medicane Trixie as represented by ERA-Interim (left), ERA5 (center), and ERA6 (right). ERA6 offers a better representation of these extremes, including atmospheric pressure (black contours) and wind speed (color shading). Credit: Paul Poli/ ECMWF_  
**Ocean–Atmosphere Coupling**
For the first time in an ECMWF flagship reanalysis, ERA6 includes an ocean model to provide a consistent representation between the atmosphere, ocean waves and the ocean. ERA6 will not ingest ocean observations directly, though, which are incorporated by the ORAS6 reanalysis, prepared in collaboration with the Copernicus Marine Service, providing reliable ocean and sea ice initial conditions to ERA6.
This integration improves coherence between marine and atmospheric processes, thereby strengthening the dataset’s value for areas such as storm-surge research, ocean circulation studies, and coastal risk assessment. Together, these innovations position ERA6 as an unprecedentedly detailed reconstruction of the Earth system.
  * **Expanded Historical Observations**
A major innovation in ERA6 is the incorporation of rescued, reprocessed, and newly available historical observations (e.g., as a result of opening data policies or international data exchange agreements). These include early satellite records (pre‑1979), reprocessed data records from C3S contracts, and corrected archives of past in‑situ measurements. This effort, combined with enhanced forecast capabilities, ensures greater continuity and accuracy in the earlier decades of the climate record and helps correct geolocation and timing errors in the original archives.  
_Numbers of observations per day, for a variable pair in each panel (see legend), available to ERA5 (bottom curve) and available to ERA6 (top curve), with shading showing the additions from one reanalysis to the next_(_between +50% to more than doubling for some variables_)._Credit: Paul Poli/ ECMWF_
  * **Better representation of the stratosphere**
The effort to better represent the stratosphere enables model improvements and bias correction, helping to improve some known issues of ERA5 in the upper stratosphere and benefiting the reconstruction of the whole Earth system.
The first and foremost reason for introducing a new version of the ECWMF reanalysis is to respond to the feedback and requirements of our users. Additionally, the steady progress in science, hardware, cloud technologies, and other advances makes it necessary to release a new generation of the most popular products from C3S and the Climate Data Store. For improved interoperability with other international reanalyses and ECMWF operational products, the native ERA6 data will be fully compliant with the standard format of the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) GRIB Edition 2.
At a time when weather and climate prediction is at the crossroads of the AI revolution, ERA5 has shown the essential value of robust physics-based weather data, which has been used to train most successful ML/AI models, including ECMWF’s AIFS. 
Additionally, reanalysis in general and ERA5 in particular has consolidated as a global reference for our knowledge of the climate system, including for decision-making and research.
[ Back to top  ](
* * *
