© Francesco Rossi
**Abstract**
_Species:_ Wolf
_Country:_ Italy
_Implementation:_ LIFE MEDWOLF: October 2012 – March 2017 | DifesAttiva: since 2016 | Grosseto local platform: 2018 - 2021
_Contact info:_ Istituto di Ecologia Applicata (
_More information:_ [Report: Examples of good practices]( | 
**The issue:**
The Province of Grosseto, located in Tuscany, Italy, is characterised by rolling hills, agricultural lands, and forests. With over half of the province dedicated to agriculture, livestock production, particularly sheep farming, has long been a cornerstone of the local economy. However, the traditional way of life faced growing challenges with the return of wolves to the area.
Wolf numbers began to increase and expand in Grosseto in the early 1980s, after decades of only a few individuals. The wolf's expansion was followed by increased depredation of dairy sheep, a critical resource for small-scale, semi-extensive farming systems. The regional government tried to address the issue with different compensation schemes and preventive measures, but these efforts often fell short. Many farmers viewed the legal protection of wolves as a direct threat to their livelihoods. Frustration grew as preventive measures were seen as burdensome and ineffective, leading some farmers to resort to illegal wolf killing (poaching). 
By 2012, the high levels of stress and economic losses reported by farmers underscored the urgent need for a collaborative, multi-actor approach to address the challenges posed by the return of the apex predator.
© LIFE MEDWOLF
These two young wolves were captured by a camera trap near a farm in Grosseto by LIFE MEDWOLF.
**A solution:**
Tailored prevention measures can mitigate impact of wolves on livestock, improving conditions for livestock owners and promoting coexistence. When adapted to local needs, they protect livestock while building trust and cooperation among stakeholders. An initial project established in Grosseto has led to long term collaboration between stakeholders.
In 2012, the LIFE MEDWOLF project, coordinated by the Istituto di Ecologia Applicata, brought together livestock owners, local authorities, environmental NGOs and agricultural associations in Grosseto. The project focused on co-designing and implementing damage prevention measures, such as livestock guarding dogs (LGDs) and fencing, while empowering stakeholders by actively involving them in decision-making. Decisions were made collectively, fostering a sense of ownership and mutual accountability. The project laid the foundation for further collaboration, leading to the creation of DifesAttiva ('active defence') in 2016, a livestock farmer´s network for sharing experiences on LGD management. Collaboration continued through a local dialogue platform in Grosseto, established in 2018, as part of an EU-funded pilot project.
Dialogues among stakeholders.
© Andrea Panzavolta
**Actions:**
  * **Preliminary assessment:** Review of past damage events and identification of beneficiaries for prevention measures through focus groups and 150 face-to-face interviews with sheep owners.
  * **Selection of beneficiaries and assessment of best measures:**
    * A total of 201 expressions of interest were received.
    * Visits to 70 farmers to assess willingness and identify suitable measures, like fences or LGDs.
    * Support was provided up to a maximum of €2,500 per farm.
  * **Implementation and monitoring of measures on 86 farms.**
    * **Livestock guarding dogs:** 45 LGDs
    * **Fences** : 79 fences were installed on 67 farms, including mixed metal mesh and electric wire fences, as well as fixed metal fences. These fences were chosen after careful consultation with farmers during preliminary assessments, because they are easy to implement and require little maintenance. Technical assistance was provided during construction.
    * **Monitoring** : Regular farm visits ensured correct use of measurements after implementation.
  * **Evaluation** of the effectiveness and costs of damage prevention measures.
  * **Establishment of a livestock owners’ association for the management of livestock guarding dogs, through LIFE Medwolf and continued by DifesAttiva**.
    * **Provision of** **LGDs** : Vaccinated, dewormed and chipped LGDs were provided to 29 farms that joined the Association, with a total of 71 LGDs distributed in Grosseto and 19 in surrounding areas by 2018.
    * **Evaluation of LGD** behaviour, effectiveness and costs. This included a 
    * **Technical support** post-delivery of LGDs, during the crucial first months.
    * **Raising awareness** through own website, social media, TV spots, media articles, and public events.
    * **Educational activities** include training seminars for shepherds, school visits, and farm visits for tourists, nature agencies, and school groups.
    * Placement of **warning signs for tourists** with instructions on how to behave in the presence of a LGD.
    * **Promoting products** from associated farms.
  * Establishment of a [**local dialogue platform on large carnivores in Grosseto**]( This regional platform was established through an EU-financed pilot project to address conflicts with large carnivores by taking local circumstances into account and engaging local stakeholders.
    * **Initial fact-finding mission and scoping phase** , involving site visits and stakeholder interviews to define objectives and participants.
    * A series of six **interactive workshops** were held between 2018 and 2019, focusing on trust-building, brainstorming solutions, and prioritising actions.
    * **Agreement on 20 actions** grouped into four objectives: Incentives, Prevention, Monitoring, and Promotion/Communication.
    * Presentation of initial results at a joint workshop with the EU Platform.
**What changed:**
The implementation of the LIFE MEDWOLF project and subsequent initiatives significantly reduced impacts on livestock, while fostering coexistence. Preventive measures, such as fences and livestock guarding dogs, led to a 47% decrease in attacks, and a 50% reduction in animals killed. Treatment farms experienced fewer depredation events, with 81% of farmers endorsing fences and 74% positively evaluating LGDs. While disagreements remain among representatives of the main interest groups, the opportunity for deepening the understanding of each other’s needs and difficulties led to a shift in attitudes towards coexistence. Additionally, improved documentation and data collection offered scientific and evidence-based answers and a common reference point for all stakeholders, that stimulated livestock owners to report attacks.
Collaboration improved through participatory platforms and the establishment of networks, which facilitated knowledge-sharing and expanded successful practices to other regions. Overall, continued action in the region fostered a wider, competent use of prevention measures and set the foundation for long-term coexistence strategies.
The total costs for the adoption and maintenance of damage prevention measures (fences and LGDs) at a typical farm in Grosseto were estimated at EUR 43–54 per head per year. 
**Financing:**
The LIFE MEDWOLF project had a total budget of €3,315,272, which covered also similar actions in Central Portugal. The difesAttiva association, developed within the project, has since become self-sustaining through its activities. Since 2018, fuel expenses and communication materials have been funded by the association, while veterinary costs are partially covered by WWF and partially by farmers.
The association also receives support from the Capellino Foundation through the "Farmers & Predators" project. Farmers joining difesAttiva pay a €10 subscription fee, which is used for the veterinary care of LGD pups. In 2024, difesAttiva became an Association of Social Promotion, allowing broader public support and participation.
**Other examples:**
_Livestock Guarding Dog network in Greece_
Between 2009 and 2012, a LGD network was established in Western Macedonia, to reduce livestock losses to large carnivores. The network facilitated the exchange of dogs and knowledge among breeders. 
Since 1996, Grupo Lobo has implemented the LGD Programme to reduce human-wolf conflicts by reintroducing national LGD breeds to protect livestock. The programme supports farmers with dog placement, training, and monitoring.
Since September 2018, IDELE (Institut de l'élevage), with support from the French Ministry for Agriculture, has coordinated a network of experts to assist farmers in using LGDs as a key measure to protect livestock from wolf depredation. The initiative provides group and individual training for breeders. 
Publication date
3 March 2026 
Author
    [Directorate-General for Environment](
EU Environment newsletters deliver the latest updates about the European Commission’s environmental priorities straight to your inbox.
[See more](
Share this page 
