Story's url: https://climate.copernicus.eu/full-historical-carra2-data-release-offers-new-insights-arctic-extremes

Date: 27th May 2026
_**The Arctic is**_[]( _**warming at more than twice the global average**_]( _**, making it an important region for monitoring climate change. To support better understanding of key regional processes and inform decision-making, the Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S*) has released the full 40-year data series (1986-2025) from its second-generation Copernicus Arctic Regional Reanalysis – CARRA2, which is now a pan-Arctic regional reanalysis. Covering the entire Arctic north of 65°N with unprecedented detail, this new dataset released in May 2026 marks a major step forward in monitoring extreme weather and climate variability across the region. Let’s take a closer look. marks a major step forward in monitoring extreme weather and climate variability across the region. Let’s take a closer look.**_
_The pan-Arctic CARRA2 domain and the CARRA1 (CARRA-West and CARRA-East) domains._ Source: CARRA, Credit: C3S/ ECMWF.
The original Copernicus Arctic Regional Reanalysis (CARRA1) has been providing information on Arctic climate since 2021. It was set up as a publicly accessible reanalysis dataset with unprecedentedly high resolution of 2.5 x 2.5 km2 (grid box size), significantly finer than the 31 x 31 km2 of the global ERA5 reanalysis (or even the [upcoming ERA6 reanalysis]( which will have 14km resolution), enabling detailed climate assessment of more than 70 variables, including precipitation, temperature and wind speed in four dimensions for key Arctic regions.
Built on extensive in-situ observations and data from satellite instruments, CARRA1 offered a unique view of changing conditions in two domains of the European Arctic: CARRA-West (Greenland, Iceland, eastern Arctic Canada) and CARRA-East (Svalbard, northern Norway, Sweden, Finland and the Russian High Arctic islands).
CARRA2 builds on this foundation, expanding to provide pan-Arctic coverage with the same local detail as for CARRA1 into one seamless domain north of 65°N, including more realistic physics for snow, sea-ice and glaciers, and thousands of additional observations from the Northern Hemisphere. The complete version of CARRA2 provides a 40-year record (1986–2025) of hourly climate data and will soon have a timely update service too.
_Example of 24-hour extreme precipitation event in Svalbard on 7-8 November 2016 for CARRA1, CARRA2 and ERA5. Black numbers are maximum accumulated precipitation. See the similar overall patterns for CARRA1 (left) and CARRA2 (middle) with higher and more realistic maximum values for CARRA2 in the Southern part of Svalbard._ Source: CARRA, Credit: C3S/ ECMWF.
_Daily precipitation Mean Absolute Error (MAE) for each calendar month for the northern part of Norway for ERA5 (black), CARRA1 (blue) and CARRA2 (red). CARRA1 and CARRA2 in general have smaller precipitation errors than ERA5 and CARRA2 provides slightly better agreement with observed precipitation than CARRA1._ Source: CARRA, Credit: C3S/ ECMWF.
A first, partial, CARRA2 release covering eight three-year batches with gaps between them was published in December last year. Now the full, continuous dataset (1986-2025) has been produced and is accessible through the [C3S Climate Data Store]( Regular timely updates are planned from late 2026 onwards. The dataset includes three new practical features: geographic sub-setting, which makes it possible to select a sub-domain; all levels (single, soil, pressure, height and model) in one entry; and daily and monthly means, extremes and totals in a separate CDS catalogue entry, therefore providing sub-daily, daily and monthly data available in the CDS. The new catalogue entries are available in the CDS at:
CARRA2 is particularly useful for extreme events. Its improved snow, sea ice and glacier schemes, combined with thousands of additional Arctic observations, will allow scientists and decision makers to examine high-impact weather events with unprecedented precision.
> "With CARRA2, C3S takes Arctic climate monitoring to the next level. Its pan-Arctic coverage and its enhanced representation of local features let us capture both shifts in mean values and extreme events, supporting stronger science and smarter decisions in a rapidly changing environment."  
>  C3S Director Carlo Buontempo
_Sea (ice) surface temperature differences between CARRA2 and the independent C3S sea surface and sea ice surface temperature_ _. Top panels: 38- year mean of winter sea (ice) surface temperature for the Arctic region. Left: C3S ECV data; middle: CARRA2 minus ECV data and right: ERA5 minus ECV data. The plots show spatial variations of the actual values and the differences. Bottom panel: timeseries of the differences between the reanalysis (CARRA2 in red and ERA5 in blue) and ECV data for sea points North of 75ºN. The plots show that although there are differences between the reanalysis and ECV data, CARRA2 is much closer to the observations than ERA5. Please also note that the satellite-derived ECV has also some biases, so they might not represent the full represent reality. The Arctic regional reanalysis data indicates the value of CARRA2 for the pan-Arctic domain having the full historical timeseries and the entire Arctic area North of 75N._
Descriptions of real-world extremes from the first release demonstrate how CARRA2 complements ERA5 by adding finer spatial detail and resolution, particularly in representing local extremes:
  * **Norwegian “New Year hurricane” (1 January 1992; strongest winter storm on record) with sustained 45 m/s wind and over 60 m/s wind gusts:** CARRA2 accurately showed sustained winds of up to 47 m/s, resolving coastal accelerations, while ERA5 showed peaks of <34 m/s with no hurricane‑force winds at the coast.
  * **Svalbard extreme rainfall (7‑8 November 2016; second-highest daily precipitation totals):** CARRA2 matched precipitation bands across central Spitsbergen that led to 295 avalanches, whereas ERA5 showed lower peak rainfall spread more widely.
  * **Greenland ice-sheet rainfall (14 August 2021; largest single day of rain since 1991):** CARRA2 accurately reproduced the record daily rainfall, aligning with observations. ERA5, by contrast, misplaced rainfall inland due to topographic smoothing.
  * **Denmark cloudburst (20 August 2007; small- scale convective event with 142 mm rain in 90 minutes):** CARRA2 reproduced peak rainfall of nearly 71.5 mm over the affected area, while ERA5 shows a largely dry day.
  * **Record May warmth in Greenland (29 May 2012):** CARRA2 closely matched the observed 24.8°C temperature, while ERA5 showed only a maximum temperature of 18.6°C.
These examples illustrate how CARRA2’s fine resolution provides more accurate reconstructions of localised, high-impact events compared with ERA5. While CARRA2 maintains the same resolution as CARRA1, its improved spatial and temporal coverage, along with an enhanced model version, are designed to deliver greater value to a broader range of C3S users.
CARRA2 routine updates will begin late 2026. By capturing the Arctic’s complex weather systems in greater detail, CARRA2 will become a cornerstone resource for climate scientists, policymakers and businesses navigating the challenges of a rapidly changing region.
> “With its much larger domain, temporal back-extension to 1986 and unchanged horizontal resolution with respect to CARRA1, CARRA2 can provide detailed and accurate information for the entire Arctic region. New tools (geographic subsetting) and products (daily and monthly means, extremes and totals) will significantly ease access to this large new dataset"  
>  András Horányi, C3S scientist
The CARRA dataset is produced by a consortium contracted by C3S and led by the Norwegian Meteorological Institute. Partners are the meteorological services of Denmark, Sweden, Iceland, Finland and France, and the Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland.
> “We are very happy and proud to have contributed to the Copernicus Arctic Regional Reanalysis and CARRA2 in particular. We are confident that it will really be a game changer for anyone needing accurate climate monitoring data for the full Arctic region”  
>  Harald Schyber, contract lead of the CARRA team on behalf of C3S and the Norwegian Meteorological Institute.
A CARRA2 User Workshop will be held in Copenhagen, Denmark, and online on 10 - 11 June 2026. It is open for registration until 31 May. More details on the [event page]( "
_*C3S is implemented by the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) on behalf of the European Commission._
[ Back to top  ](
* * *
[Climate Data Store](
