<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://environment.ec.europa.eu/news/commission-seeks-input-digital-action-plan-water-sector-2026-05-27_en

© Liudmila Chernetska | Getty Images
The European Commission launched [a call for evidence]( today (27 May) to support the development of an EU-wide Action Plan on digitalisation in the water sector, including an initiative on smart metres for all.
As announced in the [2025 Water Resilience Strategy ]( the [Commission Work Programme for 2026]( the plan aims to modernise water management through data-driven innovation.
Its goal is to help increase water efficiency, protect the water cycle and ensure that clean, affordable water remains available by improving water infrastructure and enhancing overall EU competitiveness.
The plan also supports the large-scale deployment of the Internet of Things (IoT), including smart sensors and metres, to enable more agile water management. Smart metres can reduce water use by up to 25%, with digital systems saving an additional 5–8% and leak detection reducing consumption by a further 7–14%.
> _“With our Digitalisation Action Plan on water, we aim to unlock the potential of new technologies and digital solutions. These can help to increase water efficiency, reduce leaks and improve how water infrastructure is managed._
> _I look forward to ideas and contributions from experts, innovators and stakeholders across the board to strengthen digitalisation in the water sector.”_
> **Jessika Roswall, Commissioner for Environment, Water Resilience and a Competitive Circular Economy**
The call seeks to gather evidence and best practices on how technologies such as artificial intelligence can improve efficiency and infrastructure resilience, as well as the challenges that must be faced when implementing them, including regulatory bottlenecks which prevent scaling-up solutions across EU countries. 
Stakeholders are encouraged to take part in the online consultation, which is open until **24 June**. These include public authorities, river basin managers, the water industry, water-intensive economic sectors such as agriculture, energy and data centres, IT and digital solution providers, research and academia. 
The EU Action Plan for the Digitalisation of the water sector – included in the [Commission Work Programme for 2026]( – is one of the flagship initiatives under the [European Water Resilience Strategy]( 
It operates at the intersection of the green and digital transitions, directly supporting the objectives of the [Competitiveness Compass]( to secure resource availability for different sectors.
Publication date
27 May 2026 
Author
    [Directorate-General for Environment](
EU Environment newsletters deliver the latest updates about the European Commission’s environmental priorities straight to your inbox.
[See more](
Share this page 
=======
Story's url: https://www.environment.nsw.gov.au/news/30-years-gundabooka-national-park-celebrated-country

27 May 2026 
Department media release Gundabooka National Park National Parks and Wildlife Service News and media releases
This June long weekend the community is invited to join the NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS) celebration of the 30th anniversary of Gundabooka National Park in far western NSW just south of Bourke.
This anniversary celebration is an opportunity to come together on Country, honouring the significant cultural history of the location with the re-opening of the Yapa (Mulgowan) art site within the park.
Visitors to this event will be some of the first to enjoy the new Yapa viewing platform, designed to enhance visitor experience while also supporting the ongoing care and protection of this important cultural site.
Beginning at 10am on Saturday 6 June at the Yapa (Mulgowan) art site picnic area and concluding at 2pm, the event will be a celebration of three decades of conservation, cultural heritage protection and connection to Country.
Featuring ancient paintings of animals, dancers, hand stencils and hunting tools, the art site is particularly significant for the Ngemba and Paakandji People.
Guided walking tours of the art site and surrounding creek-line will be led by local Traditional Owners, who will share cultural teachings about the area, its historical use and the significance of local trees and landscape features. The tours will offer visitors a deeper understanding of the cultural, historical and natural values that make Gundabooka such a significant place.
Following the morning formalities, morning team will be served followed by a community lunch later in the day, accompanied by a special dance performance by the Maranguka (pronounced: ma-ra-nu-ka) dancers, celebrating culture and storytelling through movement.
Gundabooka National Park is renowned for its striking sandstone ranges, rich Aboriginal cultural heritage and diverse western NSW landscapes. For 30 years, the park has been protected for conservation while remaining a place of ongoing cultural connection and shared management.
“For 30 years, Gundabooka National Park has protected extraordinary landscapes and cultural heritage, and we’re proud to celebrate that milestone with the community on Country.
“The re-opening of the Yapa (Mulgowan) art site is a significant moment, ensuring this important cultural place continues to be cared for and respected for generations to come.
“This anniversary is about recognising the strong partnership with Traditional Custodians and reflecting on the shared future of Gundabooka National Park.”
Contact us
**Media**
Email: media@dcceew.nsw.gov.au
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
