Story's url: https://minister.agriculture.gov.au/collins/media-releases/detector-dog-handler-graduates

Search keyword
Search
26 May 2026
The Albanese Labor Government continues to strengthen Australia’s biosecurity frontline with a new cohort of detector dog handlers graduating and joining the defence against threats. 
The new graduates, made up of six trainee handlers and two Technical Supervisors, have successfully completed all course training requirements and joined more than 60 handlers across Australia’s international airports, seaports and mail centres. 
So far in 2026, the detector dog teams have intercepted more than 14,000 high-risk items at Australia’s borders. 
Detector dog teams form part of a broader frontline biosecurity workforce, with more than 1,000 biosecurity officers working to protect Australia from biosecurity threats using a range of sophisticated tools and methods. 
A strong biosecurity frontline at the border protects Australia's $100 billion agriculture, fisheries and forestry industries and our environment. 
That’s why the Albanese Labor Government has invested more than $2 billion in new biosecurity funding since coming to office, with these latest graduates adding to the specialised capability of Australia's detector dog program. 
During a recent deployment at Melbourne International Airport, newly graduated handler Rhiannon and detector dog Qubit, intercepted approximately 200 grams of undeclared beef, which poses a serious biosecurity risk through the potential introduction of foot-and-mouth disease. 
Biosecurity detector dogs are trained to detect more than 200 different biosecurity risk commodities, with each dog detecting, on average, up to 9,000 biosecurity risk items during their working lives. 
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Julie Collins MP:**
_“The Albanese Labor Government will never compromise on biosecurity._
_“Detector dog teams are a crucial part of protecting Australia from biosecurity risks, working day in and day out to intercept pests and diseases that could significantly impact our environment and agriculture industry._
_“It’s great to welcome more detector dog handlers to the frontline, further bolstering our world-class biosecurity system._
_“Our Government is committed to maintaining a robust biosecurity system¬ - one that continues to evolve through innovation, training, and the exceptional capability of our detector dog teams.”_
