Story's url: https://www.asic.gov.au/about-asic/news-centre/find-a-media-release/2026-releases/26-079mr-asic-bans-former-mwl-financial-adviser-john-morgan-for-5-years/

[Newsroom](
Print Share
media release  (26-079MR)
Published 23 April 2026
ASIC has banned Sydney based former financial adviser John Morgan from providing financial services, controlling an entity that carries on a financial services business or performing any function involved in the carrying on of a financial services business for five years.
ASIC found Mr Morgan gave inappropriate advice to certain clients which was not in their best interests. This included recommendations that they invest most of their superannuation into the High Growth class and the Growth class of the Shield Master Fund (Shield) which were high risk investments, or that they invest in the Balanced and Conservative classes which were medium risk investments.
ASIC also found that Mr Morgan’s statements of advice to his clients contained false and misleading statements as they implied that they would enjoy better returns by investing their superannuation into Shield; and represented that Shield had generated returns and outperformed alternatives for a significant period which was incorrect because Shield had only come into existence in May 2021.
The banning order took effect from 21 October 2025. Mr Morgan’s banning has been recorded on the Banned and Disqualified Register.
Mr Morgan has made an application to the Administrative Review Tribunal to review ASIC’s decision. Mr Morgan had also brought a stay and confidentiality application which he has now withdrawn.
If you are a client of MWL and have concerns about the conduct of your adviser or the advice you received, you should consider lodging a complaint with the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (**AFCA’s service is free for consumers.**
AFCA can be contacted by:
  * calling **1800 931 678** for free (**9am – 5pm Melbourne time**), or
  * lodging a complaint online on 
  * AFCA will consider your complaint if it meets the eligibility criteria.
MWL remains a member of AFCA. Previous complaint deadlines no longer apply for now, but if you intend to lodge a complaint with AFCA in relation to advice received from MWL, it is still important to lodge a complaint with AFCA**as soon as possible.**
If you are an investor in Shield, there is a dedicated website to help you access support:
This website is operated by Super Consumers Australia, an independent consumer advocacy organisation that is helping people impacted by the collapse of Shield understand what they can do. ASIC funded Super Consumers Australia to develop this website and support people who invested in Shield.
Mr Morgan was authorised by MWL Financial Services Pty Ltd from 1 May 2017 to 28 August 2025.
On 21 November 2025, Daniel Juratowitch and Rachel Burdett of Cor Cordis were appointed as liquidators of MWL.
On 25 August 2025, ASIC cancelled MWL’s Australian Financial Services licence, banned one of MWL’s directors and its responsible manager ([25-181MR]( "25-181MR ASIC cancels AFS licence of MWL Financial Services and bans MWL’s director"), [25-180MR]( "25-180MR ASIC bans compliance manager Robert John Tohill of MWL Financial Services")). Mr Morgan is one of a number of former MWL financial advisers who have been banned by ASIC in respect of advice provided in relation to Shield ([25-127MR]( "25-127MR ASIC bans former MWL financial adviser Isaac McQueen for 4 years"), [25-128MR]( "25-128MR ASIC bans MWL financial adviser Matthew Bradley for 8 years"), [25-146MR]( "25-146MR ASIC bans a further two financial advisers of MWL Financial Services"), [25-243MR]( "25-243MR ASIC bans MWL financial adviser and investment committee member Wade Spooner for 8 years"), [25-245MR]( "25-245MR ASIC bans former UGC and MWL financial adviser Jovan Videkanic for 7 years"), [25-312MR]( "25-312MR ASIC bans former MWL financial services adviser and former UGC Head of Advice Louis Van Coppenhagen for 7 years"), [26-023MR]( "26-023MR ASIC bans former MWL Financial Services adviser Neil McPherson for 4 years"), [26-044MR]( "26-044MR ASIC bans former MWL Financial Services Adviser Raluca Terheci for a period of 6 years"), [26-062MR]( "26-062MR ASIC bans former MWL financial services adviser David Lofthouse for 3 years")).
ASIC has also commenced proceedings against MWL, former director Nicholas Maikousis and Imperial Capital Group over alleged Shield advice failures ([25-276MR]( "25-276MR ASIC takes action against MWL Financial Services, former director Nicholas Maikousis, and Imperial Capital Group Australia over alleged Shield advice failures")).
In February 2024, ASIC halted new offers of investments in Shield. ASIC made interim stop orders on four product disclosure statements for Shield ([24-018MR]( "24-018MR ASIC halts offers of Shield Master Fund")).
In June 2024, ASIC took action to secure the assets held within Shield ([24-129MR]( "24-129MR Federal Court freezes assets of Shield Master Fund")). ASIC sought orders to preserve the assets of the scheme so that they may be recovered, to the extent available, for the benefit of investors while the investigation is continuing.
ASIC has issued a consumer alert warning amid increasing concerns that people are being enticed to invest their retirement savings into complex and risky schemes: [25-120MR Consumer alert]( "25-120MR Consumer alert – ASIC warns about pushy sales tactics urging people to make quick superannuation switches"). Be super smart, visit ASIC’s 
**Stay Updated:** ASIC will post important updates about the Shield Master Fund on its dedicated webpage: [Shield Master Fund]( "Shield Master Fund").
ASIC media releases are point-in-time statements. Please note the date of issue and use the internal search function on the site to check for other media releases on the same or related matters.
[bannings and alerts]( advice](
