**Applications for the 2027 Graduate Program are now open , closing Sunday, 12 April 2026, 11.30pm AEST**
Submit your application via:   
Position Details | DFAT  
---|---  
Classification and salary on commencement | APS 4 $84,115 + 15.4% Super  
Classification and salary on completion | APS 5 $92,753 + 15.4% Super  
Location | Canberra – ACT *Relocation assistance is available  
Commencement Date | February 2027  
Duration of the program | 18 months  
Employment Type | Ongoing APS, Full-time  
Streams | 
Security Clearance | Negative Vetting Level 2  
A career with the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) provides you with the opportunity to make a difference. You will learn new skills, be part of experienced and motivated teams, and undertake work that promotes and protects Australia's international interests.
We work with international partners and other countries to tackle global challenges, increase Australia's trade and investment opportunities, protect international rules, keep our region stable and help Australians overseas.
DFAT manages Australia's international presence – a network of over [116 embassies, high commissions, consulates-general and representative offices]( "Our embassies and consulates overseas") across five continents – and we have over 6,000 staff located in Australia and overseas. These staff are diplomats, negotiators, consular officers, advisers, humanitarian and corporate officers developing and delivering Australia's foreign policy, trade and development outcomes on behalf of Australia and Australians.
Each year DFAT selects a range of graduates with varying experience, academic qualifications and backgrounds. We aim to build a workforce that represents the Australia we serve and encourage applications from people with diverse backgrounds who share [our values]( "DFAT values").
No matter your interest, whether it's in corporate management, foreign affairs, international development, economic development, policy or trade and investment, our graduate program will prepare you for a rich and rewarding career in DFAT.
Our 18-month graduate program has 2 streams: Corporate and Policy.
You will complete 4 placements and get first-hand experience across a range of the government's priorities during your program.
Corporate graduates may be placed in various roles, such as:
  * consular and crisis management
  * overseas property office
  * accounting and financial management
  * human resources (HR)
  * diplomatic security
  * strategic communications
  * information communication technology (ICT)
  * corporate law
  * Australian Passport Office
  * International operations
Experience corporate graduates will gain during the program will place them in a competitive position to apply for overseas transfers in roles such as, Second Secretary and Vice Consul (Corporate) or mixed duties positions at the end of the program.
Policy graduates may be placed in various roles, such as:
  * bilateral economic and political relations
  * international trade negotiations and economic analysis
  * development and aid program management
  * international security and cyber security
  * international law
  * public diplomacy
  * multilateral and global issues.
  * strategic communications
Experience policy graduates will gain during the program will place them in a competitive position to apply for overseas transfers in roles, such as, Second Secretary (policy/trade/development) or mixed duties positions at the end of the program.
During the 18-month program, you will be provided with:
  * an ongoing position, commencing at an APS4 classification and advancing to an APS5 classification upon completion of the program
  * 15.4% superannuation
  * targeted training and development from the award-winning Diplomatic Academy 
  * an inclusive and flexible working environment
  * access to employee and professional networks
  * generous leave conditions
  * a relocation package if you need to move to Canberra from within Australia.
All graduate roles are based in Canberra.
We are looking for graduates with a range of experiences and skills, from diverse backgrounds. People who have a genuine interest in working with Australia's international partners to tackle global challenges, increase trade and investment opportunities, protect international rules, keep our region stable and help Australians overseas. Further, we need graduates who will help us manage departmental resources and assets (people, budget, information, property and security), in Australia and at overseas posts.
It is important our graduates can work collaboratively with others, manage relationships, have humility, drive and accountability. We also look for people who are adaptable, have resilience, and through analytical thinking, able to problem-solve.
You can apply for either the corporate or policy stream.
Candidates who have or are working towards academic disciplines or related fields in finance, accounting, business, commerce, human resources, management, psychology, marketing, communications, data, ICT, engineering and architecture should apply for the Corporate Stream.
Candidates who have or are working towards academic disciplines or related fields in international relations, law, arts, defence and national security, development, economics, social sciences, education, health sciences, public policy, history, journalism, communication, linguistics, humanitarian support, cyber security and STEM should apply for the Policy Stream.  
You must meet [DFAT general eligibility requirements]( "Eligibility") to apply for the Graduate Program.
You also need to:
  * be an Australian Citizen at the time of application
  * have completed at least a bachelor’s degree between 1 January 2022 and 31 December 2026.
Prior to starting the DFAT graduate program, successful candidates need to obtain an Australian national security clearance at Negative Vetting Level 2.
If your only qualification is from an overseas institution, you will need to provide Australian documentation recognising your qualification(s). Refer to the 
It is possible to apply for a graduate position while you are overseas.
Ongoing employment with the department requires the successful candidates to obtain and maintain a Negative Vetting 2 security clearance. Loss of a security clearance at any time will lead to termination of employment.
An interview is a critical part of the security clearance process. The interview will be conducted in Australia. If you are overseas during the security vetting process, you are expected to return to Australia for your security interview at your own expense.
How to Apply
For further information on how to apply, please go to 
All queries relating to the application and selection process for the DFAT Graduate Program should be directed to DFP Recruitment via email at 
