<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://minister.agriculture.gov.au/collins/media-releases/from-kakadu-to-norfolk-island-bird-flu-prep

Search keyword
Search
25 May 2026
The Hon Julie Collins MP, Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry  
Senator The Hon Murray Watt, Minister for the Environment and Water
* * *
The Albanese Labor Government is investing $4.5 million to support Parks Australia prepare for a potential H5 avian influenza (bird flu) outbreak.
This funding will reduce threats and improve the condition of critical habitat for species that are most at-risk from H5 bird flu, including magpie geese and the Abbott’s booby which breeds only on Christmas Island.
Australia and surrounding islands remain free of H5 bird flu. However, activities such as mapping the nests of the Abbott’s booby will inform conservation actions to help protect this unique species from a potential outbreak.
Activities in Ashmore Reef Marine Park and Coral Sea Marine Park include removing invasive plants and controlling invasive animals like the south-east Asian house mouse which compete for resources and eat sea bird eggs.
This work will build resilience in bird populations to help them better withstand an outbreak.
On Phillip Island and in Norfolk Island National Park, the focus will be on controlling the common starling and purple swamphen, species that are key predators to the islands’ native seabirds.
The funding will also build resilience of native bird populations in Kakadu National Park by reducing threats, like feral pigs, to help protect at-risk species. Feral pigs cause extensive habitat destruction by trampling vegetation and accelerating erosion. They also compete with native species for resources and prey on birds, their chicks and eggs.
This investment also includes more than $2.7 million which is supporting remote area surveillance using artificial intelligence, keeping on-ground staff safe, and other preparedness efforts in Commonwealth marine and national parks.
This funding is part of the Albanese Government’s broader commitment of over $100 million investment to prepare for H5 bird flu. This includes over $40 million for environment measures.
Minister for the Environment and Water Murray Watt said that work to increase resilience of species is an important part of preparing for H5 bird flu.
“We can’t stop H5 bird flu from reaching Australia, but we can prepare by building resilient and healthy populations of our native species.
“That means tackling threats head on, which is why the Albanese Government is funding this critical work.
“Healthy habitats and strong populations give native species the best chance of withstanding the potential impacts of H5 bird flu. Not only this, but these projects will have long lasting, broad conservation benefits.”
Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, Julie Collins said an outbreak of H5 bird flu would have major consequences for Australia.
“Strengthening our H5 bird flu preparedness and response capability is critical – not just for our valuable agricultural industries, but also for our unique natural environment and our communities.
“That’s why the Albanese Labor Government is investing over $100 million to further prepare and protect Australia from H5 bird flu.
“This funding is supporting initiatives that will help reduce the spread and impact of H5 bird flu on vulnerable wildlife, including Australia’s native populations.”
Director of National Parks Ricky Archer said that the funding was allowing Parks Australia to take practical, on ground action now to reduce the risks posed by H5 bird flu.
“From Kakadu and Ashmore Reef through to Norfolk Island and Christmas Island, our parks support globally significant bird populations,” he said.
“Strengthening these ecosystems by removing invasive species gives our native species the best possible chance if H5 bird flu reaches Australia.
“Importantly, this investment also supports staff safety and preparedness, including the use of remote surveillance and new technologies, ensuring we can monitor and respond effectively across some of Australia’s most remote and challenging environments.”
=======
Story's url: https://minister.agriculture.gov.au/collins/media-release/joint-media-release-aus-travel-declaration-pilot-expanded-to-melbourne

26 May 2026
The Hon Julie Collins MP, Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry  
The Hon Julian Hill MP, Assistant Minister for Citizenship, Customs and Multicultural Affairs
* * *
The Australian Travel Declaration (ATD) pilot program has expanded to include eligible passengers on selected Qantas flights arriving into Melbourne Airport from today, Tuesday 26 May 2026.
The latest expansion marks the third phase of the pilot program which launched in October 2024, providing eligible travellers flying into Brisbane, and Sydney (from August 2025), a streamlined, digital clearance process through border controls and biosecurity.
Eligible passengers flying into Melbourne Airport aboard Qantas flights QF154 and QF178 from Auckland and Queenstown respectively, will be invited to complete the ATD through the Qantas app.
Passengers will be able to complete the declaration up to 72 hours prior to travel.
Once completed, a digital pass containing a unique QR code is sent to their nominated email address to be presented to Australian Border Force (ABF) and Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry (DAFF) officers upon arrival without need to fill out an incoming passenger card.
The pilot program, led by ABF, in partnership with the DAFF and Qantas, has had an uptake of more than 380,000 passengers since its launch.
Additional international Qantas flights arriving in Melbourne will be added in the coming weeks and the ABF will work closely with DAFF and Melbourne airport over the course of the pilot program.
**Quotes attributable to Assistant Minister for Citizenship, Customs and Multicultural Affairs, Julian Hill**  
 _“Getting rid of the paper arrival card on eligible flights into Sydney and Brisbane has been enormously popular with international travellers. The inclusion of Melbourne in this pilot program is the next step in providing a more seamless experience at our borders for Australians and visitor alike._
_“The Government is firmly committed to modernising Australia’s airport arrivals, and digitalising the incoming passenger card allows border agencies to engage with passengers prior to travel, helping to ensure security and biosecurity risks remain offshore.”_
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry the Hon Julie Collins**
_“This expansion of the digital Australia Travel Declaration system is an important step in improving and streamlining biosecurity compliance and enforcement._
_“Including Melbourne Airport in this pilot will continue to help simplify traveller clearances while ensuring strong protections are in place at Australia’s border._
_“The expansion is a win for all incoming travellers, and a win for Australia’s world-renowned biosecurity system.”_
**Quotes attributable to Rachel Yangoyan, Qantas Chief Technology, AI and Transformation Officer**
_"Melbourne is one of our busiest international ports and offering the Australia Travel Declaration here is another way we are improving the arrival experience for our customers._
_“Since launch, we’ve now seen over 380,000 digital declaration submissions through the Qantas app, and the response has been incredibly positive._
_"Qantas is the only Australian airline offering this capability and we look forward to continuing to work with the Federal Government to expand access to more flights and more ports."_
**Quotes attributable to Melbourne Airport CEO Lorie Argus**
_"The international arrivals process is one of our biggest passenger pain points, so we're pleased to see this trial being extended to Melbourne Airport._
_"We're committed to working with the Federal Government, its agencies and the airlines to streamline the arrivals process and deliver a seamless border experience for travellers."_
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
