<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.asic.gov.au/about-asic/news-centre/find-a-media-release/2026-releases/26-106mr-asic-cancels-afs-licence-of-global-pacific-solutions-group-pty-ltd/

[Newsroom](
Print Share
media release  (26-106MR)
Published 26 May 2026
ASIC has cancelled the Australian financial services (AFS) licence of Global Pacific Solutions Group Pty Ltd (AFS licence 514164). The licence cancellation took effect on 20 May 2026.
The licence was cancelled because Global Pacific Solutions Group Pty Ltd is no longer carrying on a financial services business.
Under s915B(3)(a) of the Corporations Act, ASIC may cancel an AFS licence held by a body corporate if the body ceases to carry on a financial services business.
Global Pacific Solutions Group Pty Ltd may apply to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review of ASIC’s decision.
Global Pacific Solutions Group Pty Ltd has held AFS licence 514164 since 24 February 2019.
ASIC media releases are point-in-time statements. Please note the date of issue and use the internal search function on the site to check for other media releases on the same or related matters.
[bannings and alerts]( services](
=======
Story's url: https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/latest-news/2026/may/release-of-tender-for-north-west-mental-health-precinct

30 May 2026 
Bridget Archer, Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing 
The Tasmanian Government is delivering important upgrades to our hospitals, with tenders now invited for the construction of a new $40 million mental health facility located at the North West Regional Hospital in Burnie.   
Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing, Bridget Archer, said the purpose-built facility is part of the Tasmanian Government’s plan to build a contemporary mental health system and this development brings this important project another step closer to delivery.  
“The North West Mental Health Precinct will include a 22-bed inpatient unit to replace the current Spencer Clinic and ensure people in Tasmania’s North West have access to contemporary and recovery focused mental health care in the region,” Minister Archer said.   
“The Precinct will feature open spaces, healing gardens and safe, functional therapeutic outdoor areas to promote a calm environment, benefiting both mental health consumers and staff.   
“Importantly, it will play an important role in attracting and retaining mental health services for staff by providing a modern and thoughtfully designed working environment that supports their wellbeing and professional growth.  
“This project is central to our plans to continue enhancing mental health services in the North West and is being delivered as part of the North West Hospitals Masterplan.”  
The Tasmanian Government has worked closely with clinicians, stakeholders and the community to shape the Precinct’s design, which features a two-storey form nestled into the hill to reduce visual impact, additional car parking, and landscaping.   
A Development Application for the facility’s construction was approved by Burnie City Council earlier this week.
[ More Media Releases from Bridget Archer ](
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
