<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.asic.gov.au/about-asic/news-centre/find-a-media-release/2026-releases/26-104mr-fund-manager-rodney-forrest-re-sentenced-to-five-years-and-three-months-jail-following-insider-trading-appeal/

[Newsroom](
Print Share
media release  (26-104MR)
Published 22 May 2026
The Full Federal Court has re-sentenced former investment manager Rodney Forrest to five years and three months’ imprisonment following his appeal for insider trading and procuring others to trade in more than $3 million of Platinum Asset Management shares.
Mr Forrest’s non-parole period of three years remained unchanged, and he will be eligible for parole on 23 January 2029.
Mr Forrest was initially sentenced to six years’ imprisonment on 23 January 2026 ([26-007MR]( "26-007MR Fund manager sentenced to 6 years’ jail in $3 million Platinum Asset Management insider trading case")). He appealed his sentence and, following his appeal, Mr Forrest’s total effective sentence has been reduced by nine months.
The Full Court allowed the appeal on the grounds that the sentencing judge erred in finding that Mr Forrest’s false denials when initially interviewed by ASIC affected the assessment of the objective seriousness of his offending, rather than limiting this consideration to remorse and the weight to be given to his plea.
Despite the identified error, the Court emphasised Mr Forrest’s offending remained serious, involving premeditation, planning, a significant breach of trust and a high degree of sophistication, justifying a substantial custodial sentence.
'These offences are unquestionably serious. It is a significant example of offences of this nature,’ the Court held.
The Full Court also held that general deterrence was a primary sentencing consideration in this matter.
The matter and appeal were prosecuted by the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (Cth) (CDPP), following a referral and six-month investigation from ASIC.
ASIC has a [2026 enforcement priority]( "ASIC enforcement priorities") related to strengthening investigation and prosecution of insider trading conduct.
In line with its 2025 enforcement priorities, ASIC established a dedicated insider trading team in late September 2024 to swiftly progress insider trading investigations and increase the number of criminal briefs referred to the CDPP.
In July 2024, ASIC released Report 787  _Review of Australian equity market cleanliness_ ([REP 787]( "REP 787 Review of Australian equity market cleanliness: 1 November 2018 to 30 April 2024")), which found that Australia’s equity markets continue to operate with a high level of integrity and remain consistently among the cleanest in the world.
Mr Forrest pleaded guilty to the charges in August 2025 at the first mention of the matter in the Downing Centre Local Court ([25-163MR]( "25-163MR Charges laid in Platinum Asset Management insider trading case")).
ASIC media releases are point-in-time statements. Please note the date of issue and use the internal search function on the site to check for other media releases on the same or related matters.
[dealing with asic]( advice]( markets]( services](
=======
Story's url: https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/latest-news/2026/may/delivering-high-quality-adhd-care-through-general-practice

29 May 2026 
Bridget Archer, Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing 
The Tasmanian Government continues to make life easier and cheaper for Tasmanian families to access care for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) through their GP.  
Training is now underway that will support GPs to expand their scope of practice to assess, diagnose, and initiate the prescription of medication for children and adults with ADHD.  
Minister for Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing, Bridget Archer, said we are delivering the care Tasmanians need by providing GPs with the training they need to help meet the rising demand for ADHD care.  
“We know demand for ADHD support has risen across Tasmania and throughout Australia and this important step will make it easier to be diagnosed and treated, which can be life-changing for individuals and families,” Minister Archer said.  
“Until now, GPs in Tasmania have been able to support patients by continuing prescriptions for people who have already been diagnosed with ADHD by a paediatrician or psychiatrist, but they have not been able to assess, diagnose, or initiate medication themselves.   
“Our Government is working closely with stakeholders – including paediatricians, psychiatrists, pharmacists, and GPs – to deliver training that will enable GPs to diagnose, treat and manage ADHD.  
“The first GP training workshop is being delivered today in Devonport as part of the Tasmanian Rural Health Conference, with nearly 50 GPs signed up to attend the session.”  
Participants who complete the required training will be able to apply to the Department of Health’s Pharmaceutical Services Branch to initiate prescribing Schedule 8 medications for patients they have assessed and diagnosed with ADHD.  
The training module will also become available online following the conference, enabling more Tasmanian GPs to complete the training in their own time remotely.  
Minister Archer said this is an important enabling step in delivering a key commitment from the 2025 State Election to provide Tasmanians with timely, improved access to ADHD services.  
“We expect the first Tasmanian GPs to be practicing under this expanded scope and providing high-quality ADHD care in the next month,” Minister Archer said.  
“This will be a game changer for Tasmanian families, slashing wait times for assessments, cutting medical costs, and ensuring lifelong ADHD care that’s easier to access right across the State.”
[ More Media Releases from Bridget Archer ](
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
