<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.nacc.gov.au/news-and-media/resignation-national-anti-corruption-commissioner

Media Releases 
Published:
25 May 2026
Content
Today the National Anti-Corruption Commissioner, the Hon Paul Brereton AM RFD SC, submitted his resignation to the Governor-General, to take effect on 6 July 2026.
Commissioner Brereton took office as the inaugural Commissioner on 1 July 2023, and will have served three years in the office when his resignation takes effect.
Commissioner Brereton said:
“The Commission was established to provide independent assurance to the Australian people that corrupt conduct in the Commonwealth public sector is appropriately addressed.
“Over the last three years, much progress has been made in pursuit of our mission of enhancing integrity in the Commonwealth public sector. While our mere existence has influenced and shaped behaviour for the better, that has been powerfully reinforced by our extensive education and engagement program, which has enhanced the integrity culture across the sector.
“We have completed assessment of more than 92% of the 7,624 referrals received over the last three years.
“We have published 7 [investigation reports]( Our investigations have exposed corrupt conduct in law enforcement agencies, Commonwealth departments and government business enterprises, including cronyism in a recruitment process, a secret commission in a procurement processes, dishonesty in senior executive decision-making, and the leaking of sensitive information about law enforcement investigations to criminal associates. 
“Much more is underway. Our 34 current investigations cover former or current parliamentarians and staff, senior executives in the public service, contractors and consultants, and a grants scheme. Fair and thorough investigations take time, and the outcomes of these and other investigations will emerge in due course, though it is important to remember that many will not result in findings of corrupt conduct. From the outset we have been committed to fairness, and that approach is well embedded in the Commission’s operations. 
“I would like to record my deep appreciation for the support and contributions of the Deputy Commissioners, the Chief Executive Officer, and the committed and diligent staff of the Commission, who work tirelessly in the interests of the Australian people.
“The ongoing focus on matters relating to me personally rather than the Commission’s work is drawing attention away from the Commission’s core purpose of strengthening integrity in the Commonwealth public sector, which has always been my primary focus as Commissioner.
“I believe that the Commission’s success is paramount, and not due to any single person. While I will continue to resist any suggestion of impropriety, I have decided that it is time, now that the Commission is established and functioning with quality staff and good processes, to step aside and allow a new Commissioner to lead it into the next phase of its development into a key and respected component of the integrity architecture of the Commonwealth.”
Media release
[ Resignation of National Anti-Corruption Commissioner (PDF 146.93 KB) ](
=======
Story's url: https://www.premier.tas.gov.au/latest-news/2026/may/tasmanians-to-pay-the-price-for-labors-red-tape

28 May 2026 
Guy Barnett, Minister for Small Business, Trade and Consumer Affairs 
Tasmanian builders and home buyers will get a 12-month reprieve from National Construction Code red tape after the Building Amendment Bill 2026 passed the Parliament.
Minister for Small Business, Trade and Consumer Affairs, Guy Barnett, welcomed the temporary reprieve but said with the Code being acknowledged as increasing the cost of housing, it is incredibly disappointing that Labor blocked the full freeze of red tape.
“We took a strong position to the election to freeze the National Construction Code - a position which was backed in and fully supported by industry,” Minister Barnett said.
“Our position was nation-leading, and even the Federal Government is now openly acknowledging that constant changes to the Code are causing housing to be more expensive and harder to build.
“It is staggering that despite the acknowledgement of the Federal Labor Government that Code changes make building houses harder and more expensive, the Winter-Willie Opposition voted against the freeze.
“Labor could have supported the Government and the industry by backing a freeze, but they chose to block it.
"When the Code comes into effect next year, Labor will be responsible for the extra costs Tasmanian home buyers will pay.”
[ More Media Releases from Guy Barnett ](
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
