Ministerial media release
Published:
    8 March 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for Veterans, Minister for Women
* * *
Female veterans, current serving defence personnel, families and war widows will gather at the Anzac Memorial in Hyde Park Sydney at 10.45am today to mark the 115th anniversary of International Women’s Day.
The special commemoration, attended by the Minister for Women Jodie Harrison, will honour the courage, resilience and leadership of women who have served Australia across generations, from the armed forces to those who supported the war effort on the home front, including Grace Wood, a veteran of the Second World War.
Ms Wood enlisted in the Australian Women’s Land Army at the age of 19 so she could help the war effort from home.
This year’s commemoration marks 115 years since International Women’s Day was first observed globally, and highlights the evolving role of women in the Australian Defence Force.
From serving as nurses in the Boer War in the 1890s, to the formation of the women’s auxiliary forces during the Second World War and their current roles on the front lines, women have long played a significant role in Australian military service.
NSW is home to 14,923 female veterans, according to the 2021 Census, which for the first time asked questions relating to military service.
The 2021 Census also showed that 3,876 women serve in the regular Australian Defence Force and 1,183 in military reserves across the state. The Families of Veterans Guild estimate there are approximately 9,800 war widows in NSW.
**Minister for Veterans David Harris said:**
“For more than a century and a quarter, women have been central to Australia’s defence and continue to shape the future of the Australian Defence Force, representing more than 20 per cent of current serving personnel.
“Since the formation of the NSW Army Nursing Service Reserve in 1899, wherever Australians have served, women have served beside them, with courage, skill, and unwavering commitment.
“During and after the First World War women gave extraordinary service as nurses and members of the Volunteer Aid Detachments, paving the way for the establishment of dedicated women’s services across the armed forces, and this continued through to the Second World War.
“On International Women’s Day, we honour every woman who has served our nation, in times of war and in times of peace, and we recognise the enduring legacy they continue to build.”
**Minister for Women Jodie Harrison said:**
“This International Women's Day, we honour the extraordinary women who have shaped and strengthened the defence of our nation.
“Women have long served with distinction in the Royal Australian Air Force, Australian Army and Royal Australian Navy, proving time and again that leadership, courage and capability are not defined by gender.
“From frontline nursing and critical war work on the home front, to serving in uniform as members of the Australian Defence Force, women have made indispensable contributions, often in the face of significant barriers.
“Today, we recognise not only their service and sacrifice, but also the strength of military spouses and families whose support underpins our nation’s defence. I would like to thank and acknowledge every woman who has contributed, and continues to contribute, to keeping Australia safe.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
23 February 2026
The Minns Labor Government’s partnership with SEEK Volunteer is connecting volunteers to their dream roles in record numbers, as part of the NSW Volunteer Recruitment Portal.
Ministerial media release
12 February 2026
The Minns Labor Government is introducing further legislation to strengthen integrity and crack down on crime and corruption across NSW.
Ministerial media release
11 February 2026
Applications are open for the NSW Government’s Youth Development Scholarship program, offering 1500 high school and tertiary students living in social housing $1000 grants to help cover their education expenses. 
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
