Ministerial media release
Published:
    7 March 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for Better Regulation and Fair Trading
* * *
Three people have received Community Corrections Orders and consumers have been awarded more than $125,000 in compensation after NSW Fair Trading uncovered that sellers had wound back the odometers of 10 cars by 2 million kilometres.
Recently, Adam Dabbagh was ordered to pay five consumers a total of $65,670 after being found guilty of odometer tampering and fraud-related offences after vehicle odometers were wound back a total of 1.1 million kilometres.
In one case, Mr Dabbagh purchased a Toyota Prado for $8,000 with 397,000km on the odometer, selling it weeks later for $32,000 with an odometer reading of 107,000km. Mr Dabbagh has been sentenced to a three-year Community Corrections Order and has 30 days to appeal.
Thirumalesh Guilraj Ullal was sentenced to a 12-month Community Corrections Order for two offences relating to obtaining a financial advantage by deception, two offences of odometer tampering, and one offence of using false documents relating to a logbook.
In one case, a vehicle originally purchased for $5,000 with an odometer reading of 304,742 km was later sold for $36,000 with a reading of 115,000km, and Mr Ullal has paid $47,000 in compensation to consumers.
Mr Ullal has appealed his sentence to the District Court of New South Wales.
Maher Naboulsi was ordered to pay $12,480 in compensation to consumers after being convicted for three counts of odometer tampering and one count of fraud involving the use of a forged service logbook. NSW Fair Trading investigators uncovered that Mr Naboulsi was committing these offences while engaging in unlicensed motor dealing.
In one case, Mr Naboulsi purchased a Toyota Hiace for $4,000 with 450,000 km on the odometer, changed its number plates, and then sold it two days later for $8,500 having wound back the odometer to 188,228 km.
Mr Naboulsi was sentenced to a Community Corrections Order for a period of 12 months.
For more information on buying a new vehicle, please visit [
**Minister for Better Regulation and Fair Trading Anoulack Chanthivong said:**
“Purchasing vehicles privately and on online marketplaces comes with risks. If you buy a used vehicle from a licensed motor dealer, in most cases you are entitled to a dealer guarantee under the _Motor Dealers and Repairers Act,_ including compensation.
“I cannot stress how important it is to do your due diligence when buying a used vehicle. Purchasers should search the car’s history through ServiceNSW and ensure it has accurate odometer readings, no outstanding finance, and not been written off in a crash.
“For sellers thinking about tampering with odometers, NSW Fair Trading is watching.
“We will not hesitate to prosecute those engaged in those offences, who will have to pay compensations to consumers.”
* * *
Ministerial media release
27 January 2026
With a new round of claims now open for the $60 weekly toll cap, motorists are being urged to join the thousands of individuals who took advantage of the rebate to start the new year with a boost to their holiday budget.
Ministerial media release
15 June 2025
Motorists are being advised to step on the accelerator to claim their toll relief under the Minns Labor Government’s $60 a week toll cap.
Ministerial media release
27 February 2025
Used-car buyers are being urged to check a vehicle’s history before purchase after NSW Fair Trading issued 28 fines in a month and a man was sentenced to a nine-month intensive corrections order for unlicensed motor dealing and odometer tampering.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
