Ministerial media release
Published:
    6 March 2026 
Released by:
    Minister for Health
* * *
The first steps to prepare the site for the $630 million Fairfield Hospital Redevelopment have commenced, bringing the much-anticipated hospital upgrade another step closer.
The Minns Labor Government has committed $550 million to deliver the Fairfield Hospital Redevelopment, with a further $80 million contribution from the Commonwealth Government to expand the hospital’s Emergency Department.
This first stage of works includes the expansion of existing car parking areas, which is due to be completed in mid-2026. Mettle Constructions has been appointed to deliver the first stage of early works, following a competitive tender process.
Plans for a new 460-space multi-storey car park were also released this week. The multi storey car park along with an expansion of existing spaces will increase campus car parking capacity by approximately 500 spaces on completion of the redevelopment.
The Fairfield community and hospital staff are encouraged to attend a series of drop-in information sessions to learn more about the planning application for the multi-storey car park:
  * Tuesday, 10 March 10:00am to midday, Fairfield Hospital foyer
  * Saturday, 14 March 11:00am to 2:00pm, Fairfield City Central shopping centre, 1/29 Court Road, Fairfield
The Review of Environmental Factors and technical documents is currently on exhibition until 11:59pm on Thursday, 2 April 2026 and feedback can be provided online: <
Delivering both the current parking works and the proposed multi-storey car park upfront will help minimise parking impacts throughout the redevelopment project. Planning and design are continuing to progress for a new clinical services building, which is proposed to include:
  * A new and expanded Emergency Department
  * Intensive Care Unit
  * Medical Imaging
  * Operating theatres
  * Inpatient wards.
Some existing departments will also be relocated or refurbished as part of the project. The final design for the redevelopment will be confirmed as planning for the project progresses. 
The Minns Labor Government is rebuilding essential health services in western Sydney, with the most recent 2025-26 NSW Budget delivering $1.3 billion of additional funding to support the delivery of health facilities and services across the region.
**Quotes attributable to Minister for Health, Ryan Park:**
“Today we are one step closer to delivering the redeveloped Fairfield Hospital, with works now underway to prepare the hospital campus for the biggest upgrade in almost 40 years.
“This is an essential first step in delivering a modern, fit-for-purpose hospital campus that will provide contemporary health facilities to better support our staff, and strengthen health care for Sydney’s south-west, now and into the future.”
**Quotes attributable to Member for Fairfield, David Saliba**
“These early works will ensure our growing community has access to modern, high-quality healthcare close to home.”
"These additional spaces will make a real difference for people visiting the hospital and working on the site every day. It means patients, visitors and staff will continue to have access to parking while the hospital upgrade moves ahead."
**Quotes attributable to Member for Prospect, Hugh McDermott:**
“There has been significant staff and community input into this much-anticipated project, with more than 900 people engaged throughout the planning and early design process during 2025, helping to shape the project to date.
“I encourage our community to learn more about this next stage of works, including the planned multi-storey car park, by visiting the website or attending one of the information sessions where they can meet the project team and ask questions.”
**Quotes attributable to Member for Cabramatta, Tri Vo:**
“The commencement of early works at Fairfield Hospital is a major step forward for local health care, setting the foundation for a modern contemporary hospital that will better meet the needs of our growing community.”
**Quotes attributable to South Western Sydney Local Health District Chief Executive, Sonia Marshall:**
“We've reached the exciting first phase of the Fairfield Hospital Redevelopment where we see careful clinical planning and building designs start to transform into reality.
"The start of early works construction means we are a step closer to realising our detailed designs for a new clinical services building and upgraded health facilities and services. This plan is the result of commitment from staff, patients and the public to ensure the redevelopment reflects the health related needs of the growing Fairfield community in coming years and beyond."
* * *
Ministerial media release
9 March 2026
The Minns Labor Government is providing a funding boost to an Australian-first alliance that’s fast-tracking cancer patients across NSW onto potentially life-saving early-stage clinical trials.
Ministerial media release
5 March 2026
NSW Ambulance staff from across the Illawarra and South Coast have been recognised for their unwavering service, bravery and dedication at a special awards ceremony in Wollongong.
Ministerial media release
5 March 2026
The south western Sydney community is benefitting from more timely access to urgent care, with more than 8,400 visits to the Gregory Hills Urgent Care Service (UCS) since the service opened in February 2024.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
