Story's url: https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/en/web/products-eurostat-news/w/ddn-20260505-1

Enter search term
Search
Close
Menu
Back Previous items Next items
    *       * Explore data
    *       * Advanced tools and services
    *       * Quality and European statistics
    *       * Collections
    *         * [ Statistics Explained ](
    *       * Who we are
    *       * Our work
    *       * Our partners
    *       * Working with us
© Evgen/stock.adobe.com
In the second half of 2025, average electricity prices for households in the [EU]( remained largely stable, with a slight increase to €28.96 from €28.79 per 100 kWh in the first half of the year. These price levels remain well above levels from before the 2022 energy crisis. 
The small rise in 2025 was driven by higher taxes and levies, which increased both in absolute terms (to €0.0837 per kWh compared with €0.0804 per kWh in the first half of 2025) and as a share of the final bill (28.9% in the second half of 2025, up from 27.9% in the first half). As a result, the slight decrease in pre-tax electricity prices was more than offset by higher taxation, leading to a modest increase in the final prices paid by consumers.
This information comes from [data on electricity prices]( published by Eurostat. The article presents a handful of findings from the more detailed [Statistics Explained article on electricity prices](
Source dataset: [nrg_pc_204](
Considerable variations were observed among EU countries. Ireland reported the highest electricity prices at €40.42 per 100 kWh, followed by Germany (€38.69) and Belgium (€34.99). By contrast, the lowest prices were observed in Hungary (€10.82), Malta (€12.82) and Bulgaria (€13.55).
Despite stable EU averages, national currency comparisons indicate significant price movements in some countries. Household electricity prices surged in the second half of 2025 Romania (+58.6% compared with the second half of 2024), Austria (+34.3%), and Ireland (+32.7%). Meanwhile, countries like Cyprus (-14.7%), France (-12.5%), and Denmark (-11.9%) experienced significant price reductions.
Expressed in [purchasing power standard]( (PPS), electricity prices were the highest for households in Romania (49.52 per 100 kWh), Czechia (38.65) and Poland (37.15). The lowest prices based on PPS were observed in Malta (14.09), Hungary (15.10) and Finland (18.77).
Source dataset: [nrg_pc_204](
For information on upcoming releases, visit our [release calendar]( If you have any queries, please visit our [contact us]( page.
Share this page:
[ © Chepko Danil/stock.adobe.com EU household gas prices up in the second half of 2025  5 May 2026  ]( [ © GH Studio/Shutterstock.com European Statistical Monitor: April edition  16 April 2026  ]( [ © GH Studio/Shutterstock.com European Statistical Monitor: March edition  19 March 2026  ]( [ © mimadeo/stock.adobe.com 47% of EU’s electricity came from renewables in 2025  19 March 2026  ](
Hidden
Rate this page
Select the number of stars that correspond to your rating
5 stars 4 stars 3 stars 2 stars 1 star
Success
Your rating has been submitted.
Give us more feedback
Click this radio box. Help us improve your experience - tell us any problems you had.
Please choose one of the options.
I cannot find the information I am looking for
I found mistake(s) in the text
I had a technical problem with this page
Other issue
Enter your name Please briefly describe the issue.
Do not include any personal information.
300/300 characters remaining
I accept the terms & conditions.
Submit my feedback 
