<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.climatechange.environment.nsw.gov.au/news/NSW/Government-responds-to-Net-Zero-Commissions-heat-risk-warning

The NSW Government has now provided a response to the [Net Zero Commission]( letter on extreme heat and humidity in summer 2025-2026.
=======
Story's url: https://www.dpi.qld.gov.au/news-media/news/national-tree-forum

Experts from across Australia will gather in Brisbane this week for Australia’s first National Tree Health Forum, a landmark event focused on the growing threats facing our trees, forests and ecosystems.
The forum, hosted by the Department of Primary Industries’ (DPI) EcoSciences Precinct in Brisbane on 27–28 May, will highlight the importance of tree biosecurity and address the threats and challenges posed by invasive pests and diseases to Australia’s environment.  
More than 60 participants, including researchers, biosecurity specialists, foresters and government from across the country are set to attend. They will examine critical risks, reflect on lessons from past biosecurity responses and identify practical actions to strengthen national readiness, coordination and resilience in Australia’s tree biosecurity system.  
The timing of the forum is critical, as invasive pests and diseases increasingly threaten Australia’s way of life, economy, environment and biodiversity.  
Discussions will include reflections on invasive pests and disease incursions such as the polyphagous shot-hole borer first detected in Western Australia in 2021 and myrtle rust, which was detected in New South Wales in 2010.
DPI General Manager Plant Biosecurity and Product Integrity and Chief Plant Health Manager Michael Reid said the forum reflected growing recognition that tree health is not simply a technical issue, but a broader social, ecological and economic challenge.  
“Queensland is proud to host Australia’s first national forum focused on tree health. Importantly, this forum brings together people from very different disciplines, experiences and knowledge systems—from science to local level expertise, First Nations, government and community,” Mr Reid said.  
“Protecting tree health requires more than technical capability alone. It requires relationships, shared learning and the ability to draw on a broad diversity of knowledge and experience.  
“Shared responsibility only works when we work alongside people closest to the issue. This forum is about bringing that practical knowledge together and turning it into practical action.  
“Pest and disease incursions like polyphagous shot-hole borer and myrtle rust threaten our trees, human health, economic, ecological and cultural values, and this forum will help us better understand prevention and response strategies while creating long-term solutions to manage these threats to our environment,” Mr Reid said.
Read about [plant pests and diseases](
Email media@dpi.qld.gov.au.
Biosecurity
Last updated: 28 May 2026 
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
