Story's url: https://www.parliament.vic.gov.au/news/general-news/eragow

Main menu
[Parliament of Victoria](
[Event calendar](
29 April 2026
A meeting room in Victoria’s parliamentary precinct has been named the Eragow Room, recognising the twinning partnership between the Parliaments of Nauru and Victoria.
The room takes its name from the _eragow_ , a traditional Nauruan spear that has become the symbol of parliamentary authority in the Nauru Parliament—equivalent to the mace in Victoria’s Parliament.
A replica _eragow_ was presented to the Victorian Parliament at the naming ceremony, presided over by the President of the Legislative Council, Shaun Leane MP, and attended by a delegation from the Nauru Parliament taking part in the Women’s Talanoa Workshop at Parliament House.
The delegation included the Hon Charmaine Scotty MP (Minister for Women and Social Development Affairs), the Hon Isabella Dageago MP (Deputy Speaker) and Ann-Marie Cain (Clerk of Parliament).
  * Eragow Room naming
23s
Eragow Room naming
View previous shortsView next shorts
Close the video player
The twinning partnership has supported a range of capacity-building and professional development initiatives between the two parliaments. Most recently, Victorian parliamentary staff assisted with a review of the Nauru Parliament’s procedural rules (standing orders).
The Eragow Room is the second meeting room at the Victorian Parliament to be named in honour of a twinned Pacific Island Parliament.
Located alongside the Eragow Room, the Davui Room recognises the parliamentary partnership between Fiji and Victoria.
✓ Share link copied to clipboard
✓ Share link copied to clipboard
