Story's url: https://energy.ec.europa.eu/news/commission-launches-strategy-accelerate-clean-energy-investment-2026-03-10_en

©AdobestockRPhotography
Delivering the clean energy transition will require €660 billion of investment annually until 2030, rising to €695 billion between 2031 and 2040. Despite the good progress already made, the **pace and scale of investments has to increase** to ensure Europe’s economy is powered by secure, affordable, and clean energy. 
Against this backdrop, the Commission today adopted a [Clean Energy Investment Strategy]( (COM/2026/116) to help mobilise significant additional private investment for clean energy. 
While public funding plays a vital role as a catalyst, the energy transition will, first and foremost, require the mobilisation of substantially more private capital. By using public financing as a catalyst, we aim to de-risk projects, spread financing costs over time, and attract a wider base of investors, including large-scale institutional capital. 
In this context, the European Investment Bank (EIB) Group intends to deliver **over €75 billion of financing over the next 3 years** to support the objectives of the energy transition and this Clean Energy Investment Strategy. 
Commissioner for Energy and Housing, Dan Jørgensen, said:
> 'To ensure that Europe’s economy is powered by secure, affordable and clean energy, we have to step up the pace and scale of investments. Public financing alone is not enough. We must strategically leverage private capital. With our Clean Energy Investment Strategy, backed by over €75 billion of financing by the European Investment Bank, we will de-risk projects and attract a broader range of investors to help finance clean technologies, energy efficiency and modern infrastructure such as grids that will underpin the clean energy transition. This strategy is the step change we need in energy investments for our competitiveness, security, and decarbonisation.'
President for EIB Group, Nadia Calviño, said:
> 'EIB Group investment is supporting an energy revolution in full swing, with projects that lower bills for businesses and households, create jobs across industries and ensure Europe is leading the way into tomorrow’s world. Clean power cuts the dependence of European economies on fossil fuel imports, and their volatile price swings, and cements the EU’s energy sovereignty and independence.'
The strategy includes the following 4 measures.
  1. **Improve access to capital markets for electricity grid operators, including access to equity:** To do so, the EIB will set up a strategic infrastructure investment fund (SII Fund) that will help to provide much-needed equity to grid operators, based on an indicative commitment of up to €500 million from the EIB. The Commission and the EIB will, together, explore the possibility to set up a facility for operators to securitise their future revenue streams in return for immediate liquidity.
  2. **Support grid operators by supporting the ability of banks to lend:** The aim is to increase the use of banks’ loan securitisation and intermediated lending for small operators, together with the EIB.
  3. **Provide targeted public funds to de-risk innovative clean energy technologies and energy-efficiency investments:** The International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that around 35% of the emission reductions required by 2050 will rely on technologies not yet available on the market. With the EIB, the Commission will step up support for the next generation of clean energy technologies and financing research on small modular nuclear reactors in Europe. This action also involves strengthening energy efficiency financing through InvestEU and by launching a € 500 million pilot scheme to accelerate the offer and uptake of 'energy efficiency as a service' models. 
  4. **Set up an Energy Transition Investment Council with the investment community** : To support long-term private investment in the energy sector, not least by ensuring public policy is aligned with investor needs. The Council will be convened by the Commissioner for Energy and Housing later this year. 
The forthcoming energy and climate framework for the decade ahead will further clarify the scope and nature of the necessary investments. Meanwhile, the EU’s 2028–2034 long-term budget and national support schemes will serve as further strategic levers to de-risk projects, reduce financing costs, and ensure public funds amplify, rather than replace, private investment. 
  * Press release: [Commission presents measures to increase EU’s energy independence and affordability](
Publication date
10 March 2026 
Author
    [Directorate-General for Energy](
Share this page 
