Story's url: https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20260512IPR43212/press-briefing-on-next-week-s-plenary-session

Press briefing on next week’s plenary session
Press Releases
[ Plenary session](
12-05-2026 - 18:07
Share this page:
Spokespersons for Parliament and the political groups will hold a briefing on the 18 – 21 May plenary session, on Wednesday at 11.00 in Parliament’s Anna Politkovskaya press room.
WHEN:Wednesday13 May at 11.00
WHERE: Anna Politkovskaya press room in Brussels and via 
Key topics next week include:
  * First European Order of Merit ceremony
  * Final vote on screening of foreign investments to better protect EU strategic sectors
  * Key debate onthesinglemarketand onproviding certainty and predictability for businesses and quality jobs
  * Debate on EU cybersecurity and preparedness in view of advanced AI systems
  * EU strategy to address the current crises in the Middle East: debate
  * Debate on the Commission’s Fertilizers Action Plan
  * This is Europe debate with the Prime Minister of Latvia, EvikaSiliņa
Interpretation of the press briefing will be available in English and French.
You can follow it live from 11.00 on Wednesday in Parliament’s Anna Politkovskaya press room or via Parliament’s [webstreaming ]( [EbS](
**Information for the media - Use of Interactio to ask questions**
Journalists wishing to participate actively and ask questions, please connect via Interactio using this link: 
Interactio is only supported on iPads (with the Safari browser) and Mac/Windows (with the Google Chrome browser). For more details, check the connection guidelines and recommendations for remote speakers.
When connecting, enter your name and the media you are representing in the first name / last name fields. For better sound quality, use headphones and a microphone. Interpretation is only possible for questions asked on video.
Journalists who have never used Interactio before are asked to connect 30 minutes before the start of the press conference to perform a connection test. IT assistancecan be provided if necessary. When connected, open the chat window (upper right corner) to be able to see the service messages.
Contacts:
  * ###  Press room 
Contact data:
Product information
Ref.: 20260512IPR43212
Share this page:
[Sign up for mail updates](
[PDF version](
  *[Ref.:]: Product reference
