Story's url: https://www.abs.gov.au/media-centre/media-releases/abs-begins-nationwide-field-officer-recruitment-2026-census

Search ABS
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (20 April 2026), [ABS begins nationwide Field Officer recruitment for the 2026 Census]( ABS Website, accessed 24 April 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, April 20). _ABS begins nationwide Field Officer recruitment for the 2026 Census_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "ABS begins nationwide Field Officer recruitment for the 2026 Census." _ABS_ , 20 April 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _ABS begins nationwide Field Officer recruitment for the 2026 Census_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 April 20 [cited 2026 April 24]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _ABS begins nationwide Field Officer recruitment for the 2026 Census_ , ABS, viewed 24 April 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Media Release
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (20 April 2026), [ABS begins nationwide Field Officer recruitment for the 2026 Census]( ABS Website, accessed 24 April 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, April 20). _ABS begins nationwide Field Officer recruitment for the 2026 Census_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "ABS begins nationwide Field Officer recruitment for the 2026 Census." _ABS_ , 20 April 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _ABS begins nationwide Field Officer recruitment for the 2026 Census_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 April 20 [cited 2026 April 24]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _ABS begins nationwide Field Officer recruitment for the 2026 Census_ , ABS, viewed 24 April 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Released
20/04/2026
Release date and time
20/04/2026 11:30am AEST
The Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) is now hiring more than 16,000 Field Officers for the 2026 Census. 
Field Officers are a key part of the Census team. These jobs provide an opportunity for people across Australia to play a role in making sure their community is counted in this year’s Census.
Emily Walter, Census National Spokesperson, said Field Officers will be hired locally, where possible, to provide local knowledge and support to their community.
“Field Officers are crucial to the success of the 2026 Census,” Ms Walter said.
“We need people from across Australia to join the Census team, to help us to ensure everyone in Australia on Census night is counted.
“Field Officers will answer the public’s questions about the Census, deliver Census letters and forms and follow up with those who have not responded.” 
Field Officers will also support people who require additional assistance to complete their Census.
“We’re looking for people who are willing and motivated to help others and can communicate sensitively and respectfully,” Ms Walter said.
Applications for a range of other Census jobs, including Field Managers and Mobile Field Representatives, are open now. 
People can visit [ for more information, to apply for jobs and to join the 2026 Census Talent Community to be notified about future Census jobs.
We’re looking for people who have:
  * strong verbal and written communication skills, with the ability to build rapport and relationships
  * strong organisational skills and the ability to work in a team environment and independently
  * the ability to communicate sensitively and respectfully, taking into account cultural and diverse backgrounds
  * the ability to remain calm under pressure and adapt to changing circumstances and/or situations.
There are positions available in all major cities and regional areas nationwide.
The hourly rate for Census Field Officers is $31.19 (inclusive of 25 per cent casual loading), plus superannuation.
Applicants will need to be available to complete paid online training prior to commencing work in the field.
We expect Field Officers to begin work sometime between July and early August depending on their location.
For more information or to apply now, visit [
The Census is the most comprehensive picture of Australia’s population and housing. Census data tells us about the economic, social and cultural make-up of the nation.
Census data informs important decisions about transport, schools, health care, infrastructure and business. It also helps plan local services for individuals, families and communities. For example, knowing the number of people living in regional and remote areas informs where doctors are needed, and understanding local births and languages spoken at home links Australians to the community services they need.
  * The ABS is partnering with Humanforce to hire the 2026 Census temporary workforce.
  * For any media requests, email 
  * Explore our [release notifications]( to stay updated.
Tags
[Census media releases](
[ Back to top of the page ]( "Back to top")
