<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.afca.org.au/news/latest-news/paul-woodburn-appointed-lead-ombudsman-superannuation

Updated: 25 May 2026 
AFCA is pleased to announce Paul Woodburn has been appointed as the new Lead Ombudsman Superannuation, commencing 25 May 2026 on a five-year term.
Paul has more than 20 years’ experience in senior roles across Superannuation, funds management and financial services. This experience includes legal, regulatory and senior executive roles within the superannuation sector.
“We are very excited to welcome Paul to AFCA. Paul is a highly regarded leader with deep technical legal and superannuation expertise and a strong track record of working constructively with diverse stakeholders. This is a significant appointment that reinforces our commitment to achieve fair and effective outcomes across our superannuation work.” Dr June Smith, Deputy Chief Ombudsman, said.
Mr Woodburn said, “It is a privilege to join AFCA as the Lead Ombudsman for Superannuation and to have the opportunity to contribute to the superannuation industry for the benefit of many Australians. I look forward to working with talented and dedicated colleagues to serve all participants in a fair, independent and transparent way on our journey towards an Australia free from financial disputes."
In making this announcement, Dr Smith thanked Heather Gray for her significant contribution to the role of Lead Ombudsman Superannuation, which she had held since 2020.
[Go back to all Latest News](
=======
Story's url: https://statements.qld.gov.au/statements/105171

Published Thursday, 28 May, 2026 at 10:00 AM
**Minister for Police and Emergency Services**  
The Honourable Dan Purdie
  * **The Crisafulli Government’s State Flying Squad has now completed 150 deployments across Queensland, charging more than 2,500 offenders with almost 7,800 offences.**
  * **Hotspot locations have included the Far North District, Townsville District and Darling Downs District. **
  * **The Crisafulli Government is delivering more police to the frontline to fight Labor’s Youth Crime Crisis and restore safety where you live. **
The Crisafulli Government is making Queensland safer, with the State Flying Squad charging 2,500 people with more than 7,800 offences, as the rapid response unit surpasses 150 deployments across Queensland.
Built to move fast, target and remove dangerous criminals from the streets, the State Flying Squad is the largest police rapid response unit in Queensland’s history and provides surge capacity into crime hotspots to help restore safety where you live and turn the tide on Labor’s Youth Crime Crisis. 
The 58-officer specialist unit is triple the size of previous flying squads and is backed by $32.4 million in funding, ending Labor’s piecemeal approach of stripping officers from critical specialist units to backfill frontline operations.
Since its establishment, the State Flying Squad has completed 157 deployments across Queensland and charged 2,560 offenders - including 1,389 juveniles - with a combined 7,798 offences. 
Officers have also delivered 658 youth diversions.
Under the former Labor Government, the number of overall victims of crime increased by 193 per cent during Labor’s decade of decline, while the number of youths charged with car theft surged from 2,155 in 2014 to more than 7,000 in 2024.
Recent deployments have delivered strong results across regional Queensland, including in Cairns and the Far North District, where officers charged 81 people with 198 offences and finalised 70 files in just 10 days. 
Hotspot locations for the State Flying Squad have included: 
  * 27 deployments to the Far North District
  * 24 deployments to the Townsville District
  * 17 deployments to the Darling Downs District
  * 14 deployments to the Capricornia District 
  * 13 deployments to the Wide Bay-Burnett District
The State Flying Squad is continuing to target emerging crime hotspots, with deployments underway or scheduled for the Wide Bay- Burnett District, Ipswich District and Townsville District. 
These results come just months after the Crisafulli Government announced more than 1,600 new police recruits had been delivered to the frontline - exactly as promised before the election - with police numbers now surging past 13,000 for the first time in Queensland’s history.
The Crisafulli Government is restoring safety where you live and has already delivered a 7.2 per cent reduction in the number of victims of crime in 2025 compared with the previous year.
Frontline policing capacity has also improved under the Crisafulli Government, with a net increase of 708 police officers since the October 2024 election, while unplanned attrition has fallen to 2.6 per cent - the lowest level in five years. 
Minister for Police and Emergency Services Dan Purdie said the Crisafulli Government’s State Flying Squad was making Queensland safer and turning the tide on Labor’s Youth Crime Crisis. 
“The Crisafulli Government’s State Flying Squad has now completed more than 150 deployments across Queensland as we continue to turn the tide on Labor’s Youth Crisis Crime which exploded during their decade of decline,” Minister Purdie said. 
“Unlike the former Labor Government, we are committed to giving our frontline officers the tools and resources they need to make Queensland safer and drive down victim numbers across the State.
“These results mean fewer criminals on our streets; homes and businesses being broken into and cars stolen after the number of victims of crime increased by 193 per cent under Labor.”
Queensland Police Far North District Superintendent Mick Searle said the region continues to benefit from the State Flying Squad’s deployments.
“The additional support from the State Flying Squad compliments the excellent work being done by local officers on the ground, day and night,” Superintendent Searle said.
“We are continuing to target priority offenders causing harm in the community and the recent expansion of the Tactical Crime Squad, Property Crime Unit as well as these State Flying Squad deployments are helping us put downward pressure on crime.
“We are seeing progress but there’s still a way to go, and we’re grateful for the community’s ongoing cooperation.”
Queensland Police Detective Inspector Joe Nixon said the State Flying Squad has proven its effectiveness in supporting local police and operations with extra boots on the ground, during its first 150 deployments in its enhanced form.
“This deployment to the Far North provided an investigative surge capacity, giving local police extra ability to execute proactive and reactive operations to enhance community safety, while helping remove serious repeat offenders from Cairns’ streets,” Detective Inspector Nixon said.
**ENDS **
**MEDIA CONTACT:** Samantha Scott, 0499 984 004
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
