Story's url: https://www.afca.org.au/news/latest-news/afca-publishes-edr-response-guide-for-complaints-about-hail-damage-claims

Updated: 3 June 2026 
AFCA has published a new External Dispute Resolution (EDR) Response Guide for hail damage claim complaints. This adds to our growing library of EDR response guides designed to support our members and complainants.
EDR response guides are valuable tools that help financial firms, complainants and representatives in preparing thorough responses to AFCA when resolving complaints. Firms, complainants and representatives can use the guide to ensure they provide AFCA with relevant information that helps us resolve the complaint efficiently.
This guide supports AFCA by allowing us to work more effectively with insurers, complainants, and their representatives to resolve complaints about hail damage claims.
The Guide is aimed at reducing lengthy submissions that include information not relevant to the complaint. Referring to this guide before making a submission will help us progress these complaints more efficiently.
The principles set out in this Guide have been drafted with hail damage claims in mind, but can be broadly applied across a range of other complaint types.
We encourage all complainants, their representatives, and financial firms to check our catalogue for a relevant EDR response guide before making any submission.
Read the new guide, and our other EDR response guides, here: [AFCA publications | Australian Financial Complaints Authority](
[Go back to all Latest News](
