Story's url: https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook%20Labor%20Government/Perth-Park-on-track,-as-major-construction-contract-awarded-20260515

Construction of Western Australia's premier entertainment and sporting precinct will ramp up, following the Perth Park major construction contract being awarded today. 
  * Cook Labor Government awards $202.4 million construction contract to deliver Perth Park
  * Final designs showcase a community precinct for entertainment, sport and culture
  * Cook Labor Government and Crown reach in-principle agreement on a land swap, subject to approval and final agreement
  * WAPC approves development application for the northern section of works
  * Update follows green light from Environmental Protection Authority and independent business case confirming Perth Park will deliver positive economic returns for WA
  * Delivering Perth Park is part of the Cook Labor Government's commitment to diversifying WA's economy so it remains the strongest in the nation
Construction of Western Australia's premier entertainment and sporting precinct will ramp up, following the Perth Park major construction contract being awarded today.
The $202.4 million contract, which has been awarded to the Seymour Whyte, Civmec and Aurecon Alliance will pave the way for the precinct to be ready for use in late 2027.
The major contract comes as the Cook Labor Government released final designs of the park, which includes a 12,000-capacity outdoor amphitheatre, a multi-purpose building with function and event spaces, and a multi-use track supporting cycling and an annual motorsport event.
Two cycling tracks are included in the final design; the 1.25km event criterium as part of the multi-use track, and the 845m training circuit, which will include lighting to AusCycling standards, providing a safe cycling circuit and shared path at nighttime.
The final designs also showcase the landscaped parkland, with more than 600 new trees to be planted, more than doubling the existing tree canopy, including a new urban forest.
The landscaping within the parkland will also include new public amenities such as walking and cycling paths, limestone tracks, children's playground, barbecue and picnic facilities, and an outdoor community basketball half-court.
More parking will also be provided as part of the updated designs, making it easier for more people to visit the parkland, as well as existing hospitality and tourism operators in the area.
The tender process for the Perth Park Hospitality Venue - an addition to the project based on feedback through the consultation process - has progressed, with three shortlisted proponents currently engaged as part of the stage two evaluation.
Pending the outcome of the live market process, the net cost of the hospitality venue will be finalised, including private sector contribution, and be outside the $217.5 million election commitment project budget.
The State Government and Crown have also reached an in-principle agreement on a land swap, subject to approval and final agreement.
This will see some of the parkland sold to Crown in 2013 as part of the Crown Towers development, returned to public ownership.
Once approved, the land swap will result in Crown handing back approximately 3.697ha of land parcel known as Lot 551, to be incorporated into the 28ha Perth Park project site.
In exchange the State will provide Crown with approximately 1.85ha of State-owned land on the south-western side of the Crown complex currently used for parking, referred to as carpark 3 and 65 per cent of carpark 8.
Perth Park will deliver a major economic return, with an independent analysis by ACIL Allen confirming the project is expected to generate $61 million in economic activity every year. Final designs and further information is available at [
**Comments attributed to Transport and Sport and Recreation Minister Rita Saffioti:**
"Over the past 15 years, the Burswood Peninsula has transformed through the development of the Crown Towers precinct, Optus Stadium, Matagarup Bridge and a range of new tourism and hospitality facilities.
"Perth Park will be the next step in the transformation of the Burswood Peninsula and elevate the area into a world-class hub for sport, entertainment, culture and the arts.
"The latest designs released today look incredible and deliver on the Burswood Park 20 Year Vision. They showcase a beautifully landscaped parkland, which will deliver a significant uplift to amenity and access across the area.
"The Cook Labor Government is committed to ensuring Western Australia attracts major events and this type of infrastructure is absolutely essential to diversifying our economy and creating local jobs."
**Comments attributed to Perth Park Steering Committee Chair Daniel Pastorelli:**
"I thank all relevant groups, industries and stakeholders for their feedback through the design review process - with feedback incorporated into the final design released today.
"As our State's premier sporting and entertainment precinct, Perth Park will deliver ongoing economic returns for WA and become a thriving community parkland - an iconic destination for locals, families, and tourists.
"We thank people for their patience and understanding, as construction continues to ramp up and causes some disruption.
"We thank Crown for their diligent and constructive engagement with the State Government in relation to the proposed land swap, and acknowledge that this in-principle agreement represents a fair and equitable outcome for all parties."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
15 May 2026 
Ministers
Deputy Premier; Treasurer; Minister for Transport; Sport and Recreation 
[See all media statements from this Government](
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](
