Story's url: https://www.abs.gov.au/media-centre/media-releases/australian-economy-grew-03-march-quarter

Search ABS 
```
```
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (3 June 2026), [Australian economy grew 0.3% in the March quarter]( ABS Website, accessed 6 June 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, June 3). _Australian economy grew 0.3% in the March quarter_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "Australian economy grew 0.3% in the March quarter." _ABS_ , 3 June 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _Australian economy grew 0.3% in the March quarter_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 June 3 [cited 2026 June 6]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _Australian economy grew 0.3% in the March quarter_ , ABS, viewed 6 June 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Media Release
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (3 June 2026), [Australian economy grew 0.3% in the March quarter]( ABS Website, accessed 6 June 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, June 3). _Australian economy grew 0.3% in the March quarter_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "Australian economy grew 0.3% in the March quarter." _ABS_ , 3 June 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _Australian economy grew 0.3% in the March quarter_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 June 3 [cited 2026 June 6]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _Australian economy grew 0.3% in the March quarter_ , ABS, viewed 6 June 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Released
3/06/2026
Source
[Australian National Accounts: National Income, Expenditure and Product, March 2026](
Release date and time
03/06/2026 11:30am AEST
Australian gross domestic product (GDP) rose 0.3 per cent in the March quarter 2026 and 2.5 per cent compared to a year ago (seasonally adjusted, chain volume measure), according to figures released today by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS). 
Grace Kim, ABS head of National Accounts, said: "Economic growth slowed in the March quarter, with modest household and public sector expenditure as well as cyclone disruptions to mining and export activities.” 
Graph Table
    * Download table as CSV
    * Download table as XLSX
    * Download graph as PNG image
    * Download graph as JPG image
    * Download graph as SVG Vector image
Gross domestic product, chain volume measures, seasonally adjusted
Combination chart with 2 data series.
View as data table, Gross domestic product, chain volume measures, seasonally adjusted
The chart has 1 X axis displaying . 
The chart has 1 Y axis displaying %. Data ranges from 0.2 to 2.5.
Created with Highcharts 10.2.1%Quarterly growthThrough the year growthMar-24Mar-25Mar-2600.511.522.53
  *   * 
Gross domestic product, chain volume measures, seasonally adjusted
End of interactive chart.
Hide lower priority columns  
Gross domestic product, chain volume measures, seasonally adjusted  
|   | Quarterly growth (%)  | Through the year growth (%)  |  
| --- | --- | --- |  
| Mar-24  | 0.2  | 1.1  |  
| Jun-24  | 0.3  | 0.9  |  
| Sep-24  | 0.3  | 0.8  |  
| Dec-24  | 0.4  | 1.2  |  
| Mar-25  | 0.3  | 1.3  |  
| Jun-25  | 1.0  | 2.0  |  
| Sep-25  | 0.4  | 2.1  |  
| Dec-25  | 0.9  | 2.5  |  
| Mar-26  | 0.3  | 2.5  |  
```
Gross domestic product, chain volume measures, seasonally adjusted
```
```
["","Quarterly growth","Through the year growth"]
```
```
[["Mar-24","Jun-24","Sep-24","Dec-24","Mar-25","Jun-25","Sep-25","Dec-25","Mar-26"],[[0.2],[0.3],[0.3],[0.4],[0.3],[1],[0.4],[0.9],[0.3]],[[1.1],[0.9],[0.8],[1.2],[1.3],[2],[2.1],[2.5],[2.5]]]
```
```
[]
```
```
[{"value":"0","axis_id":"0","axis_title":"","axis_units":"","tooltip_units":"","table_units":"","axis_min":null,"axis_max":null,"tick_interval":"4","precision":"-1","data_unit_prefix":"","data_unit_suffix":"","reverse_axis":false}]
```
```
[{"value":"0","axis_id":"0","axis_title":"%","axis_units":"","tooltip_units":"(%)","table_units":"(%)","axis_min":"0","axis_max":"3","tick_interval":"0.5","precision":"1","data_unit_prefix":"","data_unit_suffix":"","reverse_axis":false}]
```
Household spending rose 0.5 per cent in the March quarter. This growth includes elevated spending on electricity, gas and other fuels (up 11.7 per cent) as government rebates ceased, raising out‑of‑pocket expenditure for households.
Household spending on essential goods and services increased by 0.8 per cent, while discretionary spending rose by 0.1 per cent. "Rising interest rates and significantly higher fuel costs in the March month likely created an environment for more cautious consumer behaviour. This resulted in reduced spending across a range of household expenditure categories," Ms Kim added. Household spending results in this release predates the halving of the fuel excise on 1 April.
Government final consumption expenditure fell 0.2 per cent, the lowest quarterly growth since September quarter 2022. Commonwealth spending slowed from recent high levels of defence expenditure, while state and local government spending fell 0.8 per cent following the ending of electricity rebate payments.
Weather disruptions impacted export dependent industries. Mining production fell 1.5 per cent, while transport, postal and warehousing activity declined 1.3 per cent. 
Exports fell 1.1 per cent, the largest quarterly decline in two years, driven by falls in coal (down 6.8 per cent) and mineral ores (down 1.3 per cent). Imports of capital goods rose 6.3 percent, as total imports grew 2.1 per cent. Overall, net trade detracted 0.8 percentage points from GDP growth.
Private business investment rose 6.0 per cent, driven by a 16.3 per cent increase in machinery and equipment (M&E). “M&E investment recorded the largest rise in 30 years with the expansion of data centres in New South Wales and Victoria during the quarter. The contribution of investment to GDP growth was moderated as most of this equipment was imported,” Ms Kim added.
The household saving to income ratio fell to 6.2 per cent, down from 7.0 per cent in the December quarter. This fall reflects the rise in household spending in nominal terms which outpaced the rise in household disposable income. Household disposable income was driven by a 1.2 per cent rise in compensation of employees while the increase in income tax and interest payments detracted from growth.
While illicit tobacco is not reflected in the official National Accounts data, the level of public interest led the ABS to develop experimental estimates of household consumption of illicit tobacco and nicotine products and its impact on economic statistics. This release includes an [analytical article]( containing these estimates and their theoretical impact on published economic statistics. Grace Kim said, “Experimental estimates based on wastewater analysis indicate that the share of tobacco and nicotine products consumed from illicit sources is substantial and growing although it does not have a material impact on the level or growth of household consumption.”
  * For any media requests, email media@abs.gov.au or call 1300 175 070 (9am-5pm Canberra time) with your questions and deadline.
  * Please attribute the 'Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS)' when using our data.
  * Explore our [Data Crash Course]( for guidance on finding and interpreting ABS data, and subscribe to our [release notifications]( to stay updated.
  * Information on how the ABS will release market sensitive releases [during a website or API outage](
[ Back to top of the page ]( "Back to top")
