Story's url: https://www.abs.gov.au/media-centre/media-releases/transport-costs-drives-fall-household-spending

Search ABS
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (28 May 2026), [Transport costs drives fall in household spending]( ABS Website, accessed 29 May 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, May 28). _Transport costs drives fall in household spending_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "Transport costs drives fall in household spending." _ABS_ , 28 May 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _Transport costs drives fall in household spending_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 May 28 [cited 2026 May 29]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _Transport costs drives fall in household spending_ , ABS, viewed 29 May 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Media Release
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (28 May 2026), [Transport costs drives fall in household spending]( ABS Website, accessed 29 May 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, May 28). _Transport costs drives fall in household spending_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "Transport costs drives fall in household spending." _ABS_ , 28 May 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _Transport costs drives fall in household spending_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 May 28 [cited 2026 May 29]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _Transport costs drives fall in household spending_ , ABS, viewed 29 May 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Released
28/05/2026
Source
[Monthly Household Spending Indicator, April 2026](
Release date and time
28/05/2026 11:30am AEST
Household spending fell 1.1 per cent in April 2026, according to seasonally adjusted figures released today by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS).
This follows a rise of 1.6 per cent in March and a rise of 0.3 per cent in February. 
Tom Lay, ABS head of business statistics, said: ‘The 4.7 per cent drop in transport costs was the main driver for the 1.1 per cent fall in household spending in April.
‘Annual household spending was up 4.9 per cent compared to April 2025, slowing from the 6.2 per cent annual rise in March.’
The fall in transport spending reflected widespread impacts and responses to the conflict in the Middle East. Air transport was the largest contributor to the decline, as households scaled back travel in response to broader uncertainties and higher airfares. 
Higher jet fuel costs also added to the fall in transport spending, as airlines cancelled routes during the month to keep services viable. The resulting refunds are recorded as a reduction in Air Transport. 
Fuel spending remained elevated compared to before the Middle East conflict but eased in comparison to March. This was supported by the Federal Government halving the fuel excise duty in response to rising fuel prices, which took place from 1 April. 
Experimental data produced by the ABS suggests that the volume of fuel spending increased by 2.0% in April, following a 1.5% fall in March.
‘The fuel excise discount provided some immediate relief to household budgets. We also saw spending on public transport ease in states offering free travel, particularly Victoria and Tasmania,’ Mr Lay said.
A rise in new vehicle sales provided a partial offset to the broader transport decline. Electric vehicle (EV) sales, which have been trending higher over the last year, increased significantly in April as EVs accounted for a growing share of overall new vehicles sales. This points to a shift in consumer behaviour as households adjust for rising fuel prices.
‘Food spending also fell by 1.3 per cent, reflecting a return to normal levels after the higher purchases we saw in March. The shift towards generic brands and cheaper products in supermarkets continued into April, reflecting ongoing price consciousness among households,’ Mr Lay said.
Graph Table
    * Download table as CSV
    * Download table as XLSX
    * Download graph as PNG image
    * Download graph as JPG image
    * Download graph as SVG Vector image
Hide lower priority columns
Household spending, percentage change from previous month, current price, seasonally adjusted | Feb-2026 (%) | Mar-2026 (%) | Apr-2026 (%)  
---|---|---|---  
Food | 1.1 | 1.7 | -1.3  
Alcoholic beverages and tobacco | -0.5 | -0.4 | 0.3  
Clothing and footwear | 0.3 | 0.9 | -2.2  
Furnishings and household equipment | -0.4 | 1.5 | -0.1  
Health | 0.1 | 0.4 | 0.5  
Transport | -0.4 | 5.4 | -4.7  
Recreation and culture | 1.1 | 1.2 | -0.2  
Hotels, cafes and restaurants | 0.4 | -0.9 | 0.5  
Miscellaneous goods and services | -0.4 | 1.4 | -1.0  
Total | 0.3 | 1.6 | -1.1  
```
 Household spending, percentage change from previous month, current price, seasonally adjusted
```
```
["","Feb-2026","Mar-2026","Apr-2026"]
```
```
[["Food","Alcoholic beverages and tobacco","Clothing and footwear","Furnishings and household equipment","Health","Transport","Recreation and culture","Hotels, cafes and restaurants","Miscellaneous goods and services","Total"],[[1.1],[-0.5],[0.3],[-0.4],[0.1],[-0.4],[1.1],[0.4],[-0.4],[0.3]],[[1.7],[-0.4],[0.9],[1.5],[0.4],[5.4],[1.2],[-0.9],[1.4],[1.6]],[[-1.3],[0.3],[-2.2],[-0.1],[0.5],[-4.7],[-0.2],[0.5],[-1],[-1.1]]]
```
```
[]
```
```
[{"value":"0","axis_id":"0","axis_title":"","axis_units":"","tooltip_units":"","table_units":"","axis_min":null,"axis_max":null,"tick_interval":null,"precision":"-1","data_unit_prefix":"","data_unit_suffix":"","reverse_axis":false}]
```
```
[{"value":"0","axis_id":"0","axis_title":"%","axis_units":"","tooltip_units":"(%)","table_units":"(%)","axis_min":null,"axis_max":null,"tick_interval":null,"precision":"1","data_unit_prefix":"","data_unit_suffix":"","reverse_axis":false}]
```
  * This indicator uses aggregated and de-identified card transactions from banks, supermarket scanner data, and motor vehicle sales data from the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries and Electric Vehicle Council.
  * The indicator includes nine of the thirteen key divisions which are classified according to the .
  * Take care when comparing Household Spending Indicator estimates with other ABS products. See the [Methodology]( page for further information.
  * For any media requests, email  or call 1300 175 070 (9am–5pm Canberra time) with your questions and deadline.
  * Please attribute the 'Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS)' when using our data.
  * Explore our  for guidance on finding and interpreting ABS data, and subscribe to our  to stay updated.
  * Information on how the ABS will release market sensitive releases [during a website or API outage](
[ Back to top of the page ]( "Back to top")
