Story's url: https://www.mriwa.wa.gov.au/news-and-events/coiled-tubing-drilling-delivers-the-goods-for-mineral-exploration/

[Home]( "Go to Minerals Research Institute of WA.") __[News & Events]( "Go to News & Events.") __[Latest News]( "Go to Latest News.") __[News]( "Go to the News category archives.") __Coiled Tubing drilling delivers the goods for mineral exploration
The prototype RoXplorer drilling platform delivers cheaper, faster drilling than conventional technology, all with a lower environmental footprint.
Published: 2 June 2026
Supported by MRIWA under project M10444, researchers at the MinEx CRC have successfully completed pre-commercial trials of the CT500 prototype drilling system, demonstrating performance on par with established commercial methods. The CT500 achieved competitive penetration rates, faster hole completion, and reduced water and fuel usage, consistently delivered high-quality geological samples, and showed clear advantages in safety and environmental impact.
Integration of the LiqiCTrol fluid additive and the iFluid management system enabled real-time optimization of drilling conditions. Overall, the CT500 achieved more than double the productivity of conventional drilling, with further improvements expected as operational efficiencies and cost scaling are realised.
Further development of this technology is underway in a Phase 3 MinEx CRC research project supported by MRIWA as project M10552.
Read MRIWA report [10444]( summarising the findings of this research.
All fields are required. First Name  Last Name  Email Address  Organisation  Interest  E-newsletters  Green Steel  Mineral Carbonation  MRIWA Consultation on Scope Expansion into Clean Energy and Emissions Reduction  Net Zero Emission Mining  METS  Alternative Use of Tailings and Waste  Critical Minerals Advanced Processing Common-User Facility (CMAP)  Subscribe
**Page was last reviewed 2 June 2026**
