Story's url: https://www.nsw.gov.au/departments-and-agencies/local-land-services/news/landholders-urged-to-complete-feral-pig-impacts-survey

Departmental release
Published:
    2 June 2026 
Released by:
    Local Land Services
[ Listen ]( "Listen to this page using ReadSpeaker webReader")
* * *
The NSW Government’s Local Land Services is encouraging landholders to take the Feral Pig Impacts Survey to better understand feral pig impacts and measure the success of control programs.
The survey data helps Local Land Services deliver strategic, broadscale pest animal control programs and support land managers to meet their General Biosecurity Duty to manage feral pigs and pests.
Principal Program Manager Biosecurity, Jake Tanner, said information was power when it came to managing pest animals.
“By mapping the impacts and damage caused by feral pigs across NSW, we can build a clearer picture of the scale of the problem and how that might change over time based on things like seasonal conditions and landholder participation in coordinated control programs,” Mr Tanner said.
“This helps us understand which tools work and where improvements can be made for more targeted, effective control.”
The survey will be open throughout June. Landholders experiencing impacts from feral pigs on their property are encouraged to complete the survey. 
Mr Tanner said running the survey annually in June would allow Local Land Services to better compare the data year-on-year and provide a long-term picture of the effectiveness of feral pig control.
“The dedicated annual survey will provide a more accurate snapshot of what’s happening on ground across the regions,” he said.
“Responses will help direct resources and support where they are most needed, shaping control programs and incentives and helping to identify emerging hotspots for early, coordinated control.”
Landholders can visit the website to complete the [Feral Pig Impacts Survey.](
Feral pig and pest sightings, damage and landholder controls can be reported at any time via [FeralScan]( or to your local biosecurity officer on [1300 795 299](tel:1300%20795%20299).
The FeralScan data also helps to track pest animal populations over time to guide strategic biosecurity planning across NSW.
* * *
**Media Contact**  
Georgia Osland, Media & Public Affairs Officer | [0418 258 159](tel:0418%20258%20159) or georgia.osland@lls.nsw.gov.au
* * *
Departmental release
2 June 2026
The adoption of sheep and goat electronic identification (eID) technology this year has presented local sheep producers with a timely opportunity to identify the best performing animals within their flock, as drought conditions across the Northern Tablelands force producers to make tough decisions. 
Departmental release
1 June 2026
North West Local Land Services is reminding livestock producers to closely monitor stock health following recent rainfall events that may result in the emergence of patchy green pick across parts of the region.
Departmental release
21 May 2026
South East Local Land Services is reminding livestock producers to carefully check hay, grain and silage for mould contamination, with poor-quality fodder posing serious risks to animal health, welfare and productivity.
[downloadDownload as PDF]( this page]( this page](
[ Top of page north ](
