<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.abs.gov.au/media-centre/media-releases/fuel-costs-and-shortages-put-pressure-72-australian-businesses

Search ABS
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (26 May 2026), [Fuel costs and shortages put pressure on 72% of Australian businesses]( ABS Website, accessed 29 May 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, May 26). _Fuel costs and shortages put pressure on 72% of Australian businesses_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "Fuel costs and shortages put pressure on 72% of Australian businesses." _ABS_ , 26 May 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _Fuel costs and shortages put pressure on 72% of Australian businesses_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 May 26 [cited 2026 May 29]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _Fuel costs and shortages put pressure on 72% of Australian businesses_ , ABS, viewed 29 May 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Media Release
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (26 May 2026), [Fuel costs and shortages put pressure on 72% of Australian businesses]( ABS Website, accessed 29 May 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, May 26). _Fuel costs and shortages put pressure on 72% of Australian businesses_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "Fuel costs and shortages put pressure on 72% of Australian businesses." _ABS_ , 26 May 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _Fuel costs and shortages put pressure on 72% of Australian businesses_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 May 26 [cited 2026 May 29]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _Fuel costs and shortages put pressure on 72% of Australian businesses_ , ABS, viewed 29 May 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Released
26/05/2026
Source
[Business Conditions and Sentiments, May 2026](
Release date and time
26/05/2026 11:30am AEST
Fuel prices and supply availability have negatively impacted 72 per cent of Australian businesses, according to new data released today by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS). 
Tom Lay, ABS head of business statistics, said: ‘Today’s data from the Survey of Business Conditions and Sentiments, [brought back earlier this month]( helps us better understand the economic impacts of the closure of the Strait of Hormuz on Australian businesses.
‘Businesses across all industries were impacted by rising fuel costs from global volatility and ongoing supply chain disruptions.
‘One in six businesses experienced disruptions in their supply chain, with transport, logistics, agriculture and small businesses among those most affected.’
Over one third (36 per cent) of businesses reported revenue had dropped over the past four weeks, while more than a quarter (27 per cent) expect revenue to fall over the next four weeks. 
Half of all businesses reported operating expenses had risen, with fuel prices and freight and delivery costs the most frequently reported reason.
Graph Table
    * Download table as CSV
    * Download table as XLSX
    * Download graph as PNG image
    * Download graph as JPG image
    * Download graph as SVG Vector image
Hide lower priority columns
Businesses citing fuel, freight or delivery costs behind higher operating expenses | Fuel prices (%) | Freight or delivery costs (%)  
---|---|---  
Agriculture, forestry and fishing | 94 | 85  
Mining | 78 | 17  
Manufacturing | 94 | 78  
Electricity, gas, water and waste services | 97 | 66  
Construction | 86 | 56  
Wholesale trade | 85 | 72  
Retail trade | 86 | 73  
Accommodation and food services | 86 | 84  
Transport, postal and warehousing | 95 | 37  
Information media and telecommunications | 74 | 39  
Financial and insurance services | 47 | 15  
Rental, hiring and real estate services | 69 | 44  
Professional, scientific and technical services | 70 | 53  
Administrative and support services | 80 | 43  
Education and training | 76 | 44  
Health care and social assistance | 86 | 42  
Arts and recreation services | 64 | 55  
Other services | 78 | 48  
```
Businesses citing fuel, freight or delivery costs behind higher operating expenses
```
```
["","Fuel prices","Freight or delivery costs"]
```
```
[["Agriculture, forestry and fishing","Mining","Manufacturing","Electricity, gas, water and waste services","Construction","Wholesale trade","Retail trade","Accommodation and food services","Transport, postal and warehousing","Information media and telecommunications","Financial and insurance services","Rental, hiring and real estate services","Professional, scientific and technical services","Administrative and support services","Education and training","Health care and social assistance","Arts and recreation services","Other services"],[[94],[78],[94],[97],[86],[85],[86],[86],[95],[74],[47],[69],[70],[80],[76],[86],[64],[78]],[[85],[17],[78],[66],[56],[72],[73],[84],[37],[39],[15],[44],[53],[43],[44],[42],[55],[48]]]
```
```
[]
```
```
[{"value":"0","axis_id":"0","axis_title":"","axis_units":"","tooltip_units":"","table_units":"","axis_min":null,"axis_max":null,"tick_interval":null,"precision":"-1","data_unit_prefix":"","data_unit_suffix":"","reverse_axis":false}]
```
```
[{"value":"0","axis_id":"0","axis_title":"%","axis_units":"","tooltip_units":"(%)","table_units":"(%)","axis_min":null,"axis_max":"100","tick_interval":null,"precision":"-1","data_unit_prefix":"","data_unit_suffix":"","reverse_axis":false}]
```
About two thirds (60 per cent) of businesses reported making changes to business operations because of fuel prices or availability in May. 
This included absorbing cost increases (48 per cent), increasing prices (11 per cent), changing or delaying production targets, schedules or volumes (6 per cent) and implementing a fuel surcharge or levy (6 per cent). 
Roughly one in four businesses (28 per cent) made changes to their workforce in response to fuel prices or availability, including reducing or suspending non-essential travel activities to reduce fuel consumption (15 per cent) and reducing the size of the current workforce (9 per cent). 
The ABS would like to thank all businesses that contributed to the results for this survey.
  * Learn more about terms used in this media release by visiting the [Business Conditions and Sentiments, May 2026 methodology](
  * When reporting ABS data, you must attribute the Australian Bureau of Statistics (or the ABS) as the source.
  * For media requests and interviews, contact the ABS Media Team via  (9am-5pm Canberra time Monday to Friday).
  * Subscribe to our [media release notification service]( to get notified of ABS media releases or publications upon their release.
  * , designed especially for journalists, to learn how to find, download and interpret our data.
[ Back to top of the page ]( "Back to top")
=======
Story's url: https://www.mriwa.wa.gov.au/news-and-events/delivering-seismic-imaging-within-the-exploration-workflow/

[Home]( "Go to Minerals Research Institute of WA.") __[News & Events]( "Go to News & Events.") __[Latest News]( "Go to Latest News.") __[News]( "Go to the News category archives.") __Delivering seismic imaging within the exploration workflow
Fibre optic cables deployed during drilling can deliver distributed acoustic sensing (DAS) capability as an integral component of exploration drilling.
Published: 27 May 2026
Field trials undertaken in MinEx CRC Project 5 (supported by MRIWA as Project M10446) show this inexpensive form of seismic sensing can provide an efficient, robust and non-invasive method for imaging buried geology and structure. For mineral systems and other geological features associated with distinct acoustic properties, this approach could help to better define the location of anomalies within a search volume, accelerating the discovery and characterisation of hidden mineral systems.
By lowering the barriers to defining and testing buried targets, this technology could help reduce exploration risk, encouraging investment to underpin the productive future of the WA minerals industry.
Read MRIWA report [10446]( for more details of this research.
All fields are required. First Name  Last Name  Email Address  Organisation  Interest  E-newsletters  Green Steel  Mineral Carbonation  MRIWA Consultation on Scope Expansion into Clean Energy and Emissions Reduction  Net Zero Emission Mining  METS  Alternative Use of Tailings and Waste  Critical Minerals Advanced Processing Common-User Facility (CMAP)  Subscribe
**Page was last reviewed 27 May 2026**
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
