<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www.abs.gov.au/media-centre/media-releases/7-new-insights-great-barrier-reef-region

Search ABS
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (26 May 2026), [7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region]( ABS Website, accessed 29 May 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, May 26). _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region." _ABS_ , 26 May 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 May 26 [cited 2026 May 29]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_ , ABS, viewed 29 May 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Media Release
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (26 May 2026), [7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region]( ABS Website, accessed 29 May 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, May 26). _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region." _ABS_ , 26 May 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 May 26 [cited 2026 May 29]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_ , ABS, viewed 29 May 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Released
26/05/2026
Source
[Great Barrier Reef Ecosystem Accounts, experimental estimates, 2022-23 financial year](
Release date and time
26/05/2026 11:30am AEST
The Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) has been working with the Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water (DCCEEW) to create the Great Barrier Reef Ecosystem Accounts, experimental estimates 2022–23. This information will support various Reef programs and inform policy making, including the review and update of the Reef 2050 Long-Term Sustainability Plan.
These accounts measure ecosystem extent, condition and services provided by the Great Barrier Reef (GBR) region. The GBR extends across 42.7 million hectares of land, from Cape York to Bundaberg, where catchments flow into 35.2 million hectares of marine environment within and adjacent to the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area.
View [the full release]( for more information on the Great Barrier Reef region and the insights below.
Tourism in the Great Barrier Reef region is almost back to pre-COVID levels, with over 2.2 million commercial visits to the GBR Marine Park in 2022–23, with ecosystems contributing $10.3 million to recreational activities. 
Tourism in the region generated $5.3 billion in gross regional product (GRP) during 2022–23, along with 49,035 jobs and a tourism consumption of $13.0 billion. In comparison, Agriculture is also a major contributor to the region, contributing 41,883 jobs and $6.2 billion in Gross Value of Agricultural Production in 2020–21.
The majority of residents in the region felt that the reef improved their wellbeing, with 88.8 per cent agreeing that visiting the reef helps them unwind and de-stress and 86.2 per cent agreeing that visiting the reef has a physical benefit.
The introduction of more precautionary management and reforms like sustainable catch limits and reduced licenses have created a fall in the number of fish caught since 2017–18, dropping from 9,154 tonnes to 6,130 tonnes of wild fish provided to fisheries in 2021–22. Despite this, the marine realm still provided a service value of $5.4 million (down from $7.0 million).
Mangroves and Saltmarsh protected 21,062 dwellings and 45,163 people across the Great Barrier Reef region from storm and tidal surges in 2021–22. While the Fitzroy and Cape York regions contained the largest extents of Mangroves and Saltmarsh, Mackay Whitsunday residents found themselves with the most dwellings protected thanks to their higher population density along the coast.
Ecosystems contributed to the production of 6.55 million tonnes of sugarcane in the Great Barrier Reef region in 2022–23, worth $82.4 million. The Townsville area maintained its status as one of Australia’s oldest and most productive sugarcane producing areas, representing 39.8 per cent of all ecosystem contribution to sugar cane production in the Great Barrier Reef region.
The Great Barrier Reef region retained 196 million tonnes of carbon (MtC) in 2021–22, at a value of $337.4 million across blue carbon ecosystems (Mangroves, Saltmarsh and Seagrass meadows). These blue carbon ecosystems also sequestered 2,564,790 tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) over the year, taking the carbon out of our atmosphere.
  * For any media requests, email 
  * Please attribute the 'Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS)' when using our data.
  * Explore our [release notifications]( to stay updated.
  * Information on how the ABS will release market sensitive releases [during a website or API outage](
[ Back to top of the page ]( "Back to top")
=======
Story's url: https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/driven-nature-meet-sarah

29 May 2026
Blog
Few people can say they knew exactly what they wanted to do for a career at age 13. For Reef Manager Sarah Salmon, the decision was easy. She wanted to become a marine biologist. 
“I was a very nature-focused kid. Marine science was something that met all of my values and I could love work if I had to go to work every day,” Sarah Salmon said.
Her decision came from an early connection to the ocean. Growing up, she spent countless summer holidays on the Sunshine Coast, where blissful afternoons were spent bodysurfing and exploring rockpools. 
Those experiences sparked a deeper curiosity about marine environments, and while in high school, Sarah had the opportunity to experience life as a marine biologist first hand.
“At school in Year 10, I did work experience with a post-doctoral student studying dolphin health, and I got to go with her and take samples from animals in rehabilitation centres. 
“I loved it. And from that point onwards, I knew that's what I was going to do.”
Sarah went on to study a Bachelor of Marine Science at Flinders University in Adelaide and described her undergraduate experience as “heaps of fun”, especially when her studies introduced her to eccentric marine animals. 
“I can remember doing a Blue-ringed octopus study where we would catch them and bring them back to the lab. We had cameras on their tanks at night, and we’d watch the octopuses escape from their tanks, wander around the room and then climb back into their tanks, ready for their feed in the morning.
“They’re very smart creatures,” she laughed. 
After completing her undergraduate degree, Sarah moved to Townsville to begin her Honours at James Cook University. She admits she did not plan on staying in Townsville after her studies ended, but soon took up an opportunity at the Great Barrier Reef Aquarium (formerly Reef HQ), which would go on to shape the direction of her career.
What began as a job as an aquarist became the start of an almost three-decade career with the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority.
“It’s been my first and only professional career.
“I've not needed to change employer because I've had all these different careers within the one organisation.”
Sarah’s first role as an aquarist involved a wide range of work, from aquarium maintenance and animal husbandry to presenting dive shows and working at the Turtle Hospital.
“We were diving four days out of five, and it’s pretty exhausting on your body. 
“So, when a job came up in the Reef Authority’s Species Conservation Unit, I thought this is a chance to progress my career, so I went for it.”
The move marked a shift from hands-on animal care into conservation policy and management – work that would help shape how vulnerable species are protected in the Marine Park today.
One major project helped establish the framework for swimming with dwarf minke whales on the Great Barrier Reef, making the Reef one of the few jurisdictions in Australia at the time to allow for the activity under strict management arrangements. 
“There’s an aggregation of dwarf minke whales in the northern Great Barrier Reef that turns up every winter at some key dive sites. 
“We couldn't stop the interaction between people and minke whales, so we had to come up with a way of managing it.”
Based on consultation with researchers, regulators and tourism operators, the program allowed selected operators with special permits to offer controlled, low-impact interactions with the whales.
Sarah said the project was an exercise in adaptive management and highlighted the impact of collaboration in wildlife conservation. 
After five years in the Species Conservation Unit, Sarah moved into the [Reef Joint Field Management Program]( a partnership with the Queensland Parks and Wildlife Service responsible for planning and delivering field operations across the Reef.
While much of her work became strategic, Sarah remained closely connected to the Reef through fieldwork.
“I've been lucky enough to be involved in a range of fieldwork including marine turtle monitoring, whale disentanglement response work, maintenance work on moorings, and installing no anchoring areas around fragile reef systems near islands. I’ve also conducted aerial dugong surveys, coastal seabird surveys, coral bleaching surveys, and Reef Health and Impact Surveys across the region.”
Over time, Sarah’s work also contributed to conservation efforts beyond the Great Barrier Reef.
Working with government agencies across Australia, she helped to develop procedures for safely disentangling whales caught in fishing gear – work that improved how agencies respond to incidents involving marine megafauna.
“We would get reports of humpback whales getting entangled in fishing gear, so we worked with all the states around Australia to develop large whale disentanglement operating procedures. 
“I was part of the team delivering the training for marine animal release teams to disentangle the whales. It involved attaching satellite trackers to the entanglement when the whales were initially found. 
“Because the whales travel so fast, you can’t necessarily mount a response straight away.
“Once the trackers were on, a team could be formed with the right number of boats, people and equipment, so that they could find the whales and attempt to safely disentangle them. 
“It involved figuring out the lowest number of cuts to the entangled ropes to release the animal, because it's very dangerous to put a boat with people up close to a very large animal.”
Today, Sarah continues to work on projects that protect vulnerable marine species.
She now works as Assistant Director in the Reef Conservation Actions team, helping deliver high-priority marine and island conservation projects in partnership with the Queensland Parks and Wildlife Service.
Looking back on her career, Sarah says one thing has remained constant – the desire to do meaningful work that contributes to protecting the natural world.
“It's always been important to me that I'm doing something that makes a difference. 
“So, whether it's volunteering at beach clean-ups, helping in rehabilitation centres, or working in government and writing policy and designing regulations, a big driver for my work is knowing that what I’m doing every day makes a difference.” 
More than 30 years after deciding she wanted to become a marine biologist, Sarah says her motivation remains the same.
“Humans can’t be happy without access to nature. Being a part of helping to preserve that, that’s why I come to work.”
Updated 29 May 2026 
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
