Story's url: https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20260601IPR44423/ukraine-meps-welcome-reform-efforts-amid-ongoing-war

Ukraine: MEPs welcome reform efforts amid ongoing war
Press Releases
[ AFET ](
03-06-2026 - 15:28
Share this page:
  * Ukrainians and Europe must shape peace negotiations jointly
  * Progress on rule of law and anti-corruption praised 
  * Russia must pay for destruction caused
MEPs are encouraged by the EU accession-related reforms carried out by Ukraine’s government, and insist Ukrainians should determine the conditions for peace with Russia.
On Wednesday, the [Foreign Affairs Committee]( adopted, by 54 votes in favour, 17 against, and with 5 abstentions, a report assessing the latest developments in Ukraine and its progress on reforms relating to its EU membership application process.
In the text, MEPs reaffirm that nothing about Ukraine should be decided without Ukraine when it comes to ending Russia’s war of aggression, and nothing should be decided about Europe without Europe, as any agreement will have profound implications for European security. To this end, they call on the Commission and EU countries to explore the possibility of appointing a high-level European negotiator with a clearly defined mandate to represent the EU in diplomatic talks.
They also denounce the United States’ position of making US security guarantees for Ukraine conditional on the latter’s withdrawal from the Donbas region, insisting instead that Ukraine must be provided with credible security guarantees, including by EU countries together with its partners and allies, once the war has formally ended.
**Ukraine’s efforts to strengthen democratic institutions, rule of law**
The report commends Ukraine’s extraordinary efforts to strengthen its democratic institutions and safeguard the separation of powers during wartime. At the same time, MEPs say there is a need to address the recent deterioration of relations between the legislative and executive branches to foster the division of powers and protect multi-party pluralism.
The MEPs welcome Ukraine’s progress on judicial reform and the fight against corruption while calling for continued reform in these critical areas. They point out that a strong rule of law foundation will enable transparency and accountability in the reconstruction and economic recovery processes, improving the investment climate and international partners’ trust.
The report says Ukraine should do more to ensure the integrity of judicial office holders, through transparent appointments, and to keep anti-corruption bodies free from political interference. MEPs also call for continued measures to support freedom of expression and media independence.
On the issue of future elections, the MEPs emphasise the importance of putting sufficient time into meeting the necessary standards and conditions for free and fair elections once martial law is lifted, rejecting the US administration’s pressure on Ukraine to hold elections with Russia’s war still ongoing.
**Russia must pay for the massive damage caused in Ukraine**
In the text, the Foreign Affairs Committee MEPs also reiterate their firm conviction that Russia must pay for the destruction it has caused in Ukraine. They underline the need for predictable EU multiannual financial support for Ukraine to help the country to cover its recovery and defence expenses without yearly uncertainty. While they welcome the EU’s recently approved support loan for Ukraine, the MEPs regret that the Commission and Council did not agree to use the cash balances associated with Russian sovereign assets, and call for continued work on the technical and legal aspects of such a loan.
**Quote**
“Ukraine is proving that with determination and resolve it can simultaneously resist aggression, defend itself and embark on the road to EU membership. This pathway will bring profound reform for both country and society, thereby equipping Ukraine for its future in a stronger European Union”, said rapporteur [Michael Gahler]( (EPP, Germany).
**Next steps  
**
The report will now be tabled for a vote in the European Parliament as a whole.
Contacts:
  * ###  Snježana KOBEŠĆAK SMODIŠ
Press Officer (HR)
Contact data:
    * E-mail:  snjezana.kobescak@europarl.europa.eu 
  * ###  Viktor ALMQVIST
Press Officer (SE)
Contact data:
    * E-mail:  viktor.almqvist@europarl.europa.eu 
Further information
Product information
Ref.: 20260601IPR44423
Share this page:
[Sign up for mail updates](
[PDF version ](
  *[AFET]: Foreign Affairs
  *[]: Brussels
  *[Ref.:]: Product reference
