Story's url: https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook%20Labor%20Government/Budget-delivering-safe,-inclusive-communities-in-Western-Australia--20260507

The Cook Labor Government is strengthening safety across Western Australia through State Budget 2026-27, investing in key initiatives to build strong, safe and inclusive communities. 
  * $619 million for child protection, to support critical out‑of‑home care services, service delivery for children in care, and new Foster and Grand Carer Gold Card
  * $106.3 million for targeted family and domestic violence prevention and response initiatives
  * $530 million for WA Police to keep the community safe
  * $61.4 million for Target 120, strengthening early intervention to steer at-risk young people away from the justice system 
  * $41 million to support Aboriginal-led programs for vulnerable young people and Kimberley Juvenile Justice Strategy
  * $67.2 million for new and upgraded prison infrastructure
The Cook Labor Government is strengthening safety across Western Australia through State Budget 2026-27, investing in key initiatives to build strong, safe and inclusive communities. 
The State Budget includes an additional $619 million for child protection, including $421 million for the continuation of critical out‑of‑home care services and supporting service delivery for children in care, and a $29.5 million uplift to the Home Stretch Program. 
As part of this significant investment in child protection, the Cook Labor Government is backing foster, family and grandparent carers who play a vital role in caring for young people in the community, with a $46.3 million boost to supports, including:
  * a new Foster and Grand Carer Gold Card which will unlock additional supports including $377 off energy bills this year;
  * a 10 per cent uplift to the Carer Subsidy, Respite and Clothing Allowance; and 
  * a further grandcarer cost-of-living payment, on top of the Grandcarers Support Scheme that provides $1,000 per grandchild each year. 
An additional $106.3 million has been committed to family and domestic violence prevention and response initiatives. This includes $44.6 million to support operation of five new family and domestic violence refuges, and continue support for existing refuges, including therapeutic refuges in Perth and Peel.
WA Police will be bolstered with $530 million in additional resources to help Western Australians, no matter where they live - in our suburbs, towns, regional centres and remote communities - feel safe.
Additional funding for WA Police includes funding for Operation Regional Shield, an additional 15 community liaison officers, continued support for Police Community Youth Centres in regional Western Australia, and security preparations for Land Forces Expo 2026. 
A further $61.4 million will be invested in steering at-risk young people away from the justice system with long term funding for the Target 120 program across the State.
$41 million will be spent on the Kimberley Juvenile Justice Strategy to support community-led initiatives across the Kimberley that improve Aboriginal youth wellbeing and community safety.
These commitments will be further supported by $48.6 million to continue the delivery of Social and Emotional Wellbeing programs, which provide mental health support services to Aboriginal people across Western Australia.
Key programs to keep Aboriginal children safely at home and connected to culture will receive significant resourcing, with $37.7 million to support a State-wide rollout of Aboriginal Representative Organisations, ensuring vulnerable children have access to cultural supports.
$7.2 million will enable the continuation of Aboriginal Family Led Decision Making pilots in Mirrabooka and the Mid West-Gascoyne to deliver better outcomes for families engaged in the child protection system.
At-risk youth services will be granted $20.3 million for frontline services for vulnerable young people, including $12.3 million to maintain service levels and $7.3 million to strengthen the Home Safe program and assist young people needing support.
$11.8 million is being invested to extend the Dandjoo Bidi-Ak Therapeutic Children's Court Program which supports therapeutic and culturally appropriate court processes for vulnerable families going through child protection and care proceedings. 
This will compliment other initiatives, such as $10.8 million to enhance the Youth Justice Model of Care, which includes expanding the individual support transition team service from 5 days to 7 days a week at Banksia Hill Detention Centre, and $7.8 million for the In-Roads therapeutic program that delivers co-ordinated assistance for young people with complex needs in the court system.
State Budget 2026-27 delivers a staged $87.7 million custodial infrastructure program to expand and upgrade prison capacity to manage Western Australia's prisoner population and progress long-term planning for the future.
This includes $45.6 million to add a third 160 bed unit to the Acacia Prison expansion project, increasing the total capacity by 480 beds. 
Another $2.2 million has been committed to progress planning for a 512-bed expansion at Casuarina Prison, while planning is underway to expand remand capacity. 
Other initiatives and funding that form part of the Cook Labor Government's commitment to building safe communities include:
  * $29.6 million to recognise and give support to Western Australians who have experienced child sexual abuse in institutions;
  * $8.1 million to support the continued operations of the Council of Aboriginal Services WA through an $8.1 million investment to 2030-31;
  * $3.4 million invested through the Leave Safe, Stay Safe program at Bandyup Women's Prison and Greenough Regional Prison;
  * $3 million to extend support for family violence legal processes under the Family Violence Restraining Order Shuttle Conferencing program;
  * $2 million to maintain harm reduction services in Broome under the Needle Syringe Exchange Program;
  * $1.5 million to support at-risk youth and ensure they have a bright future through the safeSPACE programs at Police Community Youth Centres in Kalgoorlie, Kununurra and Roebourne; and
  * $1.4 million to strengthen services for new and expecting mothers through the Perinatal Mental Health Support. 
For more information, visit [ourstatebudget.wa.gov.au](
**Comments attributed to Premier Roger Cook:**
"My government is prioritising building safe and inclusive communities in Western Australia.
"That's exactly what this Budget will deliver for WA.
"We want all Western Australians to feel secure at home, at work and in the community.
"Our responsible Budget management has kept WA's economy the strongest in the nation so we can continue working to end family and domestic violence, combat antisocial behaviour, reduce youth crime, and support our police and emergency services to protect our community." 
**Comments attributed to Police and Road Safety Minister Reece Whitby:**
"The Cook Labor Government is determined to keep our community safe by investing heavily in WA Police and supporting young at-risk people, so they are steered away from anti-social behaviour.
"Western Australia is the only State in this country that continues to grow its police workforce, thanks to the Cook Labor Government's investment in the Western Australia Police Force.
"We have more police officers in public spaces, entertainment precincts and regional areas across the State meaning officers are responding to incidents quicker, resolving incidents faster and keeping the community safe.
"We're making it clear that community safety is a key focus and we're committed to ensuring Western Australians feel safe, supported, and protected, no matter where they live."
**Comments attributed to Emergency Services and Corrective Services Minister Paul Papalia:**
"We have the toughest family and domestic violence laws in the nation and the fastest growing population in Australia, which has resulted in unprecedented prison population growth. This budget delivers a clear plan to strengthen Western Australia's corrective services system to make sure its fit for the future. 
"This is about safer communities and making sure we have the capacity to manage offenders effectively, reduce reoffending and keep Western Australians safe."
**Comments attributed to Child Protection and Prevention of Family and Domestic Violence Minister Jessica Stojkovski:**
"The Cook Labor Government continues to demonstrate its commitment to building safe and inclusive communities.
"We are investing significantly to protect the State's most vulnerable children, while strengthening our response to family and domestic violence to keep victim-survivors safe and hold perpetrators to account.
"We are investing in a safer Western Australian community for all."
**Comments attributed to Attorney General Dr Tony Buti:**
"The Cook Labor Government is helping with the efficient administration of justice through taking innovative approaches to preventing crime. 
"Our aim is to make the justice system more efficient and accessible for everyone but also to help children avoid getting caught up in the system to begin with.
"We are also helping with the efficient administration of justice through more funding for our courts."
**Comments attributed to Youth Minister Hannah Beazley:**
"The Cook Labor Government is committed to supporting our young people, especially those who are vulnerable or at-risk.
"With access to the right services and support, our young people can reach their individual potential and make valuable contributions to building more inclusive communities.
**Comments attributed to Community Services Minister Matthew Swinbourn:**
"This Budget is about building safe and inclusive communities by strengthening the frontline services that support Western Australians when they need it most.
"We are investing in early intervention and wraparound support to help vulnerable young people stay connected to community and out of the justice system.
"This builds on our commitment to deliver practical support on the ground, ensuring people are not just safer, but better supported to get back on track."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
7 May 2026 
Ministers
Premier; Minister for State Development; Trade and Investment; Economic Diversification 
Minister for Police; Road Safety; Tourism; Great Southern 
Minister for Emergency Services; Corrective Services; Defence Industries; Veterans; Racing and Gaming 
Minister for Child Protection; Prevention of Family and Domestic Violence; Minister Assisting the Minister for Transport; Peel 
Attorney General; Minister for Commerce; Tertiary and International Education; Multicultural Interests 
Minister for Local Government; Disability Services; Volunteering; Youth; Gascoyne 
Minister for the Environment; Community Services; Homelessness 
[See all media statements from this Government](
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](
