Story's url: https://www.parliament.vic.gov.au/news/general-news/unilawprog

26 May 2026
A highly sought after parliamentary placement is giving university law students a hands-on experience with committees.
For three months the aspiring law professionals are immersed in the research and evidence gathering process involved in a parliamentary inquiry.
They often contribute to a report which is ultimately tabled in parliament and can result in legislative change.
> “‘During the placement I was able to complete some really meaningful work.'”
> Monash uni law student Charlie Paterson
‘But then what was even more valuable was to see all that work come to fruition at the end of the inquiry period when the report was tabled in parliament,’ Charlie Paterson said.
The fifth-year law student was placed with parliament’s Integrity and Oversight Committee (IOC) for its [inquiry into the adequacy of the annual budget of the Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission, the Victorian Ombudsman and Integrity Oversight Victoria](
While fellow final-year student Anthony Barlow joined the Legislative Assembly Environment and Planning Committee (LAEPC) for its [inquiry into renewable and affordable energy for apartments.](
‘On the inquiry I did lots of legal research,’ he said.
> “‘I attended public hearings. I helped draft questions for those hearings.'”
> Monash uni law student Anthony Barlow
‘I’d say it was a great experience. And if you have the opportunity to do it, it’s something you definitely should do.’
The Monash Law Reform Clinic where the students study has been operating for over 50 years.
Its partnership with parliament originated in May 2023.
‘So since that time, we've sent 18 students to parliament who have had the opportunity to work on various committees,’ Monash Law Clinics Program Supervisor Sally Andersen said.
> “‘The benefits for the university and the students are significant.'”
> Monash uni's Sally Andersen
‘For the students, they get to move beyond the classroom, beyond the learning of abstract law, and actually get to see how the law works in practice.’
Parliamentary committees are also reaping the rewards.
‘One of the benefits of having law students placed with committees is that we get an extra person on our team who can look at the issues that we're investigating with a fresh set of eyes and from a legal perspective,’ LAEPC Manager Marianna Stylianou said.
The program culminates in the participants giving a presentation to their peers, academic supervisors and committee secretariat about the experience.
‘It was a really good opportunity to practice my oral advocacy skills, as well as to get some really valuable questions and feedback from the audience at the end,’ Charlie said.
‘The presentations reveal the extent to which the students have developed, not only in their knowledge of law, but in their knowledge of the legal processes,’ Ms Andersen said.
‘It also gives us an opportunity to see how much the students have grown in terms of their legal advocacy, their oral communications, their professional skills, and their understanding of how the law works in practice.’
The response to the program is overwhelmingly positive.
‘The feedback from our students has been 100 per cent positive and they have all come out of that experience with a real passion for law reform,’ Ms Andersen said.
‘We are so fortunate to have formed this partnership with parliament, and we hope that it continues on for a long time.’
