Story's url: https://www.wa.gov.au/government/media-statements/Cook%20Labor%20Government/Budget-to-help-Western-Australians-access-healthcare-they-need-20260507

The Cook Labor Government is ensuring Western Australians have access to the healthcare they need when they need it through a record $9.1 billion boost for the upcoming year in the 2026-27 State Budget. 
  * $9.1 billion to support health workforce, increase bed capacity and improve overall access to health services State-wide
  * Record $6.5 billion spend to enhance hospital services 
  * Record $5.5 billion in health infrastructure construction pipeline to build, purchase, expand and maintain hospitals across the State
  * More than $100 billion invested in health since 2017
The Cook Labor Government is ensuring Western Australians have access to the healthcare they need when they need it through a record $9.1 billion boost for the upcoming year in the 2026-27 State Budget.
The investment includes an additional $6.5 billion to deliver hospital services, delivering more staff, beds and initiatives to ensure greater access to health services for all Western Australians.
This includes the additional staff, beds and surgical theatres coming into the public system as part of the acquisition of Mount Lawley Hospital, which will be complete by the end of August. It also includes 60 beds and three theatres at St John of God Midland Public Hospital and 60 new beds at Joondalup Health Campus.
This Budget includes a record $5.5 billion health infrastructure program over the next four years, as the Cook Labor Government continues to expand capacity in the public health system.
More than 900 additional beds are in the pipeline including major builds and redevelopments at the New Women and Babies Hospital, Royal Perth Hospital, the New Mandurah Health Campus, Osborne Park Hospital, Graylands Hospital and purchasing Mount Lawley Hospital.
It also includes upgrades to regional health infrastructure with $293.7 million in Bunbury, Albany, Tom Price, Meekatharra, Laverton, South Hedland and Broome.
In addition, investment in capital maintenance of hospitals will be boosted by $214.1 million, which is in addition to the more than $1.1 billion recurrent spend on maintaining hospitals and medical equipment over the next four years.
The Cook Labor Government is also backing in successful programs to ease pressure on hospital emergency departments.
This includes continuing the Ambulance Mental Health Co-response service with a $43.2 million investment to support people experiencing mental health distress. Since its launch, the service has successfully diverted people experiencing mental health crises away from emergency departments, ensuring timely and appropriate care in the community.
$52.3 million will be invested to deliver the Active Recovery Team Program which provides intensive, community-based treatment and wraparound mental health supports.
The Enhanced Access Community Pharmacy Pilot will support training for up to 200 additional pharmacists to provide primary care for Western Australians in areas where general practitioner coverage is limited, through a $4.1 million uplift.
The Cook Labor Government is enhancing immunisation access, with a $27.1 million investment this Budget into free flu, FluMist and RSV immunisation programs for mums, babies and older Western Australians in residential aged care.
Other investments in other key priorities across the WA health system include:
  * an additional $100.9 million to deliver the Bunbury Regional Hospital redevelopment - the most significant investment on a regional health campus;
  * an additional $24.4 million to deliver the redevelopment of Meekatharra Hospital;
  * $5.4 million to deliver the Armadale Mental Health Emergency Centre;
  * $3.7 million uplift for Sexual Assault Support Services and Sexual Assault Resource Centre;
  * $2.8 million to construct a new community clinic for the Bentley Community Child and Adolescent Health Service at the Bentley Health Service; and
  * celebrating and supporting diversity with an $800,000 investment to deliver a State-wide LGBTIQA+ inclusive health workforce training package.
These initiatives come on top of $140 million in the winter strategy to manage demand and capacity in the WA health system. 
The Cook Labor Government will also back a new Perth-based cancer facility that will transform care and support for Western Australians facing their toughest challenge.
The Perkins WA Comprehensive Cancer Centre will receive joint funding from the Cook and Albanese Labor Governments.
The investment comes at the same time as the Cook Labor Government is boosting the Building Hospitals Fund by $500 million to $2 billion in the 2026-27 Budget.
For more information, visit [ourstatebudget.wa.gov.au](
**Comments attributed to Premier Roger Cook:**
"My government is prioritising the healthcare Western Australians need, when they need it.
"That's exactly what this Budget will deliver for WA.
"Our responsible Budget management has kept WA's economy the strongest in the nation so we can continue to increase hospital capacity, deliver alternatives to emergency departments, and invest in our health workforce."
**Comments attributed to Treasurer Rita Saffioti:**
"This is the biggest investment in health in State history and is only possible thanks to our government's strong financial management.
"This Budget delivers a record $9.1 billion for more beds, more staff and more hospital capacity, while backing the programs that help people access care sooner and closer to home.
"Our priority is making sure Western Australian families can get the care they need, which is why we have committed almost $100 billion to health since coming to government."
**Comments attributed to Health Minister Meredith Hammat:**
"The Cook Labor Government is committed to improving access to healthcare to all Western Australians, at all stages of life.
"We're increasing capacity, growing and supporting our workforce, and enhancing care both at hospital and in the community.
"Our investments in health are all aimed at ensuring our growing and ageing population can access the healthcare they need, when they need it."
**Comments attributed to Health Infrastructure Minister John Carey:**
"The Cook Labor Government is delivering the State's biggest ever hospital building program through a $5.5 billion investment in health infrastructure.
"This includes upgraded and new hospitals across regional Western Australia, a brand new emergency department at Royal Perth Hospital, a new maternity hospital and a new hospital for Mandurah and the Peel region.
"This Budget demonstrates our commitment to substantially increasing hospital capacity to service our growing population.
"It also continues the Cook Labor Government's focus on our existing and ageing health assets, with an additional $214.1 million investment in maintenance over the forward estimates."
**Comments attributed to Preventative Health Minister Sabine Winton:**
"The Cook Labor Government is prioritising a healthier future for Western Australians, with the creation of the State's first preventative health strategy.
"Investing in preventative health is a long-term priority, with the aim of every Western Australian having the opportunity to live a longer, healthier life.
"The boost in preventative health investment in this Budget lays the foundation for the WA Preventative Health Strategy, which will focus investment where it will make the most difference."
**Comments attributed to Aged Care and Seniors Minister Simone McGurk:**
"By 2036, approximately one in five people living in WA will be aged 65 and over and that is why we are investing in services for older Western Australians, including the expansion of our nation-leading Time to Think program.
"By working closely with aged care providers and the Commonwealth, the Cook Labor Government is strengthening aged care pathways and tailoring support for older Western Australians."
**Comments attributed to Medical Research Minister Stephen Dawson:**
"The Cook Labor Government is committed to investing in the infrastructure and resources needed for today while supporting research and development for the breakthroughs of tomorrow.
"Initiatives such as the Future Health Research and Innovation Fund, our Clinical Trials Roadmap, and biomedical precincts are positioning Western Australia to become a national leader in medical research and innovation."
* * *
Sidebar
Published 
7 May 2026 
Ministers
Premier; Minister for State Development; Trade and Investment; Economic Diversification 
Deputy Premier; Treasurer; Minister for Transport; Sport and Recreation 
Minister for Health; Mental Health 
Minister for Planning and Lands; Housing and Works; Health Infrastructure 
Minister for Education; Early Childhood; Preventative Health; Wheatbelt 
Minister for Creative Industries; Heritage; Industrial Relations; Aged Care and Seniors; Women 
Minister for Regional Development; Ports; Science and Innovation; Medical Research; Kimberley 
[See all media statements from this Government](
* * *
[Subscribe for email updates](
