<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/turtle-egg-relocation-provides-future-population-hope

28 May 2026
Climate change
Reef health
More than 9,100 turtle hatchlings have begun their life journey after being relocated from Raine Island to Sir Charles Hardy Islands (Wuthathi National Park (Cape York Peninsula Aboriginal Land)) as part of the Raine Island Recovery Project.
Late in 2025, 8,600 eggs from more than 100 turtle nests were relocated by the Queensland Parks and Wildlife Service, scientists and Wuthathi and Meriam Nation Traditional Owners.
The latest egg relocation follows the successful trial in 2024 where more than 3,000 eggs from 38 nests were relocated.
Relocating turtle eggs requires a meticulous approach, as the eggs must be gathered within a few hours of being laid before embryonic development starts.
Senior Project Officer Katharine Robertson said the team had created an innovative method to safely remove the eggs before the development of the embryo begins.
  * “The eggs are flushed with nitrogen in vacuum-sealed bags which puts them into a hypoxic or low oxygen state and allows them to be safely moved while keeping the embryo alive and healthy,” Ms Robertson said.
“On Sir Charles Hardy Island, the eggs were reburied beneath shade structures which cools the sand and lowers nest incubation temperatures to try and produce more male hatchlings.
“The temperature of the nest during incubation determines the sex of the hatchlings, with hotter sand producing females and cooler sand producing males.
“When we returned to the island in February to dig the relocated nests, we found 82.4 per cent of the eggs had successfully hatched.
“The hatching success rate was higher than we expected and better than nests left naturally on Raine Island, and this confirms that our method could be scaled up.
Chair of Wuthathi Aboriginal Corporation Keron Murray said based on incubation temperatures, the relocated nests were likely to have produced more male hatchlings.
  * “The success of the project can be attributed to the ingenuity and leadership of the Traditional Owners to ensure the preservation and future of this green turtle population,” Mr Murray said.
Chair of Mer Gedkem Le Torres Strait Islander Registered Native Title Body Corporate Falen Passi said the egg relocation project is one of the first co-designed government and Indigenous egg translocation projects in Australia.
“The green turtle is our Totem on Mer and is an important species for many Torres Strait and Aboriginal communities,” Mr Passi said.
“The Project’s sharing of Traditional Knowledge and scientific knowledge has helped to ensure green turtles have a future.”
Raine Island is a priority place under the Australian Government’s Threatened Species Action Plan. It supports nesting for approximately 90 per cent of northern Great Barrier Reef green turtles. The Raine Island Recovery Project is funded through the Australian Government’s Saving Native Species Program.
The program is delivered by the Queensland Department of the Environment, Tourism, Science and Innovation in collaboration with the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, the Wuthathi and Meriam Nation Traditional Owners.
ENDS
For interviews, stills and vision, click 
**Media contact:**
**DETSI Media Unit on (07) 3339 5831 or**
Updated 29 May 2026 
=======
Story's url: https://www.abs.gov.au/media-centre/media-releases/7-new-insights-great-barrier-reef-region

Search ABS 
```
```
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (26 May 2026), [7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region]( ABS Website, accessed 30 May 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, May 26). _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region." _ABS_ , 26 May 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 May 26 [cited 2026 May 30]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_ , ABS, viewed 30 May 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Media Release
Copy
Detail
[ Cite ]( "Cite.")
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics (26 May 2026), [7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region]( ABS Website, accessed 30 May 2026.
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2026, May 26). _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_. ABS. 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. "7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region." _ABS_ , 26 May 2026, 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics. _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_ [Internet]. Canberra: ABS; 2026 May 26 [cited 2026 May 30]. Available from: 
Copy
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2026, _7 new insights into the Great Barrier Reef Region_ , ABS, viewed 30 May 2026, <
Close
[Print]( "Print this page.")
Released
26/05/2026
Source
[Great Barrier Reef Ecosystem Accounts, experimental estimates, 2022-23 financial year](
Release date and time
26/05/2026 11:30am AEST
The Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) has been working with the Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water (DCCEEW) to create the Great Barrier Reef Ecosystem Accounts, experimental estimates 2022–23. This information will support various Reef programs and inform policy making, including the review and update of the Reef 2050 Long-Term Sustainability Plan.
These accounts measure ecosystem extent, condition and services provided by the Great Barrier Reef (GBR) region. The GBR extends across 42.7 million hectares of land, from Cape York to Bundaberg, where catchments flow into 35.2 million hectares of marine environment within and adjacent to the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area.
View [the full release]( for more information on the Great Barrier Reef region and the insights below.
Tourism in the Great Barrier Reef region is almost back to pre-COVID levels, with over 2.2 million commercial visits to the GBR Marine Park in 2022–23, with ecosystems contributing $10.3 million to recreational activities. 
Tourism in the region generated $5.3 billion in gross regional product (GRP) during 2022–23, along with 49,035 jobs and a tourism consumption of $13.0 billion. In comparison, Agriculture is also a major contributor to the region, contributing 41,883 jobs and $6.2 billion in Gross Value of Agricultural Production in 2020–21.
The majority of residents in the region felt that the reef improved their wellbeing, with 88.8 per cent agreeing that visiting the reef helps them unwind and de-stress and 86.2 per cent agreeing that visiting the reef has a physical benefit.
The introduction of more precautionary management and reforms like sustainable catch limits and reduced licenses have created a fall in the number of fish caught since 2017–18, dropping from 9,154 tonnes to 6,130 tonnes of wild fish provided to fisheries in 2021–22. Despite this, the marine realm still provided a service value of $5.4 million (down from $7.0 million).
Mangroves and Saltmarsh protected 21,062 dwellings and 45,163 people across the Great Barrier Reef region from storm and tidal surges in 2021–22. While the Fitzroy and Cape York regions contained the largest extents of Mangroves and Saltmarsh, Mackay Whitsunday residents found themselves with the most dwellings protected thanks to their higher population density along the coast.
Ecosystems contributed to the production of 6.55 million tonnes of sugarcane in the Great Barrier Reef region in 2022–23, worth $82.4 million. The Townsville area maintained its status as one of Australia’s oldest and most productive sugarcane producing areas, representing 39.8 per cent of all ecosystem contribution to sugar cane production in the Great Barrier Reef region.
The Great Barrier Reef region retained 196 million tonnes of carbon (MtC) in 2021–22, at a value of $337.4 million across blue carbon ecosystems (Mangroves, Saltmarsh and Seagrass meadows). These blue carbon ecosystems also sequestered 2,564,790 tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) over the year, taking the carbon out of our atmosphere.
  * For any media requests, email media@abs.gov.au or call 1300 175 070 (9am-5pm Canberra time) with your questions and deadline.
  * Please attribute the 'Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS)' when using our data.
  * Explore our [Data Crash Course]( for guidance on finding and interpreting ABS data, and subscribe to our [release notifications]( to stay updated.
  * Information on how the ABS will release market sensitive releases [during a website or API outage](
[ Back to top of the page ]( "Back to top")
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
