<<<<<<< HEAD
Story's url: https://energy.ec.europa.eu/news/new-eu-task-force-fusion-energy-2026-05-27_en

The European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group (ENSREG) new **Task Force on Fusion Energy** held its inaugural meeting on 26-27 May 2026 in Cadarache, France with representatives from Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Sweden, the European Commission and observers from the IAEA and the UK. The meeting was opened by the Task Force Chair, Mr. Andreas Sikorski (Director-General of the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Climate Action, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety), and welcomed by Mr. Pietro Barabaschi, Director-General of ITER, which hosted the meeting. This inaugural meeting agreed on the Task Force’s 2026-2027 work programme.
Established on 26 March 2026, the Task Force brings together EU Member States’ regulatory authorities to assess and develop recommendations to the European Commission on the need for a fusion-specific EU legal framework. It will also advise the Commission on areas requiring fusion-specific engineering codes and standards, competence building and knowledge management in EU Member States’ regulatory authorities. The recommendations are due by the end of 2027.
Publication date
27 May 2026 
Author
    [Directorate-General for Energy](
Share this page 
=======
Story's url: https://www.gov.ca.gov/2026/05/28/governor-newsoms-clean-california-initiative-celebrates-100-community-designations-across-the-golden-state-leading-the-way-for-safer-and-cleaner-environments/

[News](
May 28, 2026
_Initiative has funded 317 projects statewide and removed more than 3.8 million cubic yards of litter from highways and public spaces_
**What you need to know:** California celebrates an important milestone as 100 communities earn the Clean California designation through the state’s ongoing commitment to environmental stewardship and civic pride by cleaning state roads, beautifying communities statewide, and creating jobs.
**SACRAMENTO** – Governor Gavin Newsom today celebrates the milestone of 100 communities and organizations across the Golden State having earned the prestigious [Clean California]( " Community designation. This statewide effort led by Caltrans encourages local engagement from Californians to make communities cleaner, safer, and more sustainable. 
Since July 2021, Clean California has funded 317 projects statewide, and Caltrans and its local partners have removed more than 3.8 million cubic yards of litter from highways and public spaces – **the equivalent of filling about 180,000 residential garbage trucks with debris and trash.** Under Governor Newsom’s leadership the program is also supporting California’s long-term goals aimed at climate resilience, economic equity and public safety.
Across California, communities are stepping up to protect the places they call home – creating cleaner neighborhoods, greener public spaces, and a healthier environment for future generations. This work reflects the shared pride Californians have in building a cleaner, more beautiful state for all.
Governor Gavin Newsom
“The first 100 Clean California designees are showing what’s possible when communities across the state commit to cleaner, healthier public spaces,” **said California State Transportation Secretary Toks Omishakin**. “Under Governor Newsom’s leadership, CalSTA and Caltrans encourage all communities to join this momentum and take the pledge for a cleaner California.”
“Unsurprisingly these 100 communities have also led the way by organizing dozens of cleanup events recently during Earth Week and throughout the year,” **said Caltrans Director Dina El-Tawansy**. “The leadership exemplified by these 100 communities and their residents and local business are proof positive that when each of us commits to making long-term changes in our behavior, we can be part of the solution that makes our state and even better place to live.”
“Our city has made great efforts to revitalize our community and make Pasadena a leading litter-free city in California. We are very honored to have received the Clean California Community designation,”**said Pasadena Mayor Victor Gordo**. “This recognition reflects the collaborative efforts of our residents, staff and our community partners who are dedicated to creating a cleaner, safer and healthier community.”
The Clean California effort has emerged as a visible and successful environmental clean-up program, ensuring that neighborhoods become litter free and that beautification spreads across the Golden State while also creating thousands of jobs.
As another 100 communities have taken steps toward earning their own Clean CA designation, more Californians will feel the long-lasting impact of this commitment to make cleaner and safer communities for years to come. 
The 100th designation milestone was reached with the help of the following communities and organizations that recently fulfilled the qualifying criteria:
  * City of Eureka (Humboldt County)
  * City of Livermore (Alameda County)
  * City of Sacramento (Sacramento County)
  * Tamalpais High School (Mill Valley, Marin County)
  * Little Tokyo Historic District (Los Angeles) 
For a list of all 100 Clean California Communities that earned the designation,[ visit here]( " or view all on a map[ here]( " 
In addition to the 100 designated communities, another 100 have taken the pledge and are working toward designation. Caltrans encourages other communities to take the pledge.
Achieving the designation begins by taking the[ Clean California pledge online]( " – cities, counties, communities or organizations have up to one year to earn the designation. In order to earn the Clean California Community designation, entities must meet 10 of 15 [specific criteria]( " to demonstrate a long-term commitment to make and keep their communities cleaner.
The Clean CA program highlights include:
  * More than 650 free dump days hosted in urban and rural communities.
  * Collection of 15,500-plus mattresses. 
  * Picking up more than 57,000 used tires.
  * Drawn more than 10,000 community clean-up volunteers
  * Created 18,267 jobs, including positions for individuals who were formerly incarcerated or experiencing housing insecurity.
For more information and to pledge online today, visit [CleanCA.com/designation]( "
[Press releases]( [Recent news]( [Top story](
[Facebook]( "Facebook")[X]( "X")[Email]( "Email")[Copy Link]( "Copy Link")
May 29, 2026
News What you need to know: As Mental Health Awareness Month comes to a close, First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom joined community members in Sacramento to highlight California’s efforts to expand access to physical activity and promote the links between movement,...
May 29, 2026
News What you need to know: Following the Governor and Legislature’s extension of California’s Cap-and-Invest Program through 2045 last year, CARB updated the program to follow legislative direction to balance affordability, jobs and near-term economic concerns while...
May 29, 2026
News What you need to know: Today, 39 Company Officers graduated from Ione Training Center, adding to the more than 3,300 that have joined CAL FIRE since 2019. Under Governor Newsom’s leadership California has made historic investments into wildfire preparedness and...
>>>>>>> 7bac5f0 (update pipeline)
