Story's url: https://www.gov.ca.gov/2026/05/29/first-partner-siebel-newsom-celebrates-the-annual-move-your-body-calm-your-mind-day-in-sacramento/

[News](
May 29, 2026
**What you need to know:** As Mental Health Awareness Month comes to a close, First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom joined community members in Sacramento to highlight California’s efforts to expand access to physical activity and promote the links between movement, mindfulness, and mental well-being.
**SACRAMENTO** – First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom and state officials joined students, athletes, coaches, mental health professionals, and community members at Street Soccer USA in Sacramento to celebrate the fourth annual Move Your Body, Calm Your Mind Day hosted in partnership with the Governor’s Advisory Council on Physical Fitness and Mental Well-Being. 
To close out Mental Health Awareness Month, the community celebration featured an afternoon of soccer, yoga, meditation, and mindfulness activities inspired by statewide initiatives: Move Your Body, Calm Your Mind and California Strong, California Love. Similar celebrations took place across the state today with nine events spanning from Grass Valley to the Bay Area to Los Angeles. 
Movement and mindfulness are powerful tools for supporting mental well-being, especially for young people navigating the pressures of life in today’s digital era. Move Your Body, Calm Your Mind Day is a reminder that caring for our mental and physical health can start with simple daily practices – from getting outside, staying active, connecting with one another, and taking moments to reset. By encouraging healthy habits early, we can help build stronger, more resilient communities across California.
First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom
“Research continues to show that regular movement and mindfulness practices can improve mental health, reduce stress, and strengthen emotional well-being,” said **Kim Johnson, Secretary, California Health and Human Services Agency**. “These initiatives encourage Californians of all ages to explore the connection between physical activity, mindfulness, and overall health.” 
The event underscored the power of movement and mindfulness to support strong mental wellbeing, while providing opportunities for the Sacramento community to build connections. Attendees participated in soccer games led by Street Soccer USA, yoga and mindfulness sessions with Afro Yoga, and a panel discussion hosted by the Positive Coaching Alliance focused on creating supportive youth sports environments. Attendees also engaged in service opportunities by creating wellness kits with mindfulness tools, mental health resources, and supportive reminders that they are not alone. 
“Service is one of the most powerful ways we build connection and belonging,” said **Josh Fryday, GO-Serve Director and California Chief Service Officer**. “Whether through volunteering, sports, or simple acts of kindness that show young people they are cared for, service can help reduce isolation and strengthen communities across California.”
Yamaguchi, President and CEO of LA84 Foundation Renata Simril, UC Davis Professor of Internal Medicine and Director of the Center for Reducing Health Disparities Dr. Sergio Aguilar-Gaxiola, NAMI California CEO Jessica Wilson, KALA Wellness Founder Nisha Rodrigo, and Professor and Director of the Center for Trauma Informed Education at Loyola Marymount University Dr. William Parham, along with local coaches, athletes, and mental health advocates. Since First Partner Siebel Newsom and Governor Newsom launched the Council in 2021:
  * Nearly 30,000 youth sports coaches have been trained to provide supportive coaching environments through the [California Coaches Challenge]( fostering a positive youth sports culture.
  * The Move Your Body, Calm Your Mind statewide campaign has expanded access to resources on physical fitness and mental well-being to communities across the state, reaching millions of Californians.
  * Council members, in partnership with the California Department of Public Health, will soon launch the new Best Practices Guide, providing Californians of all ages with simple methods to practice daily movement and mindfulness. 
The [Move Your Body, Calm Your Mind]( initiative provides Californians of all ages with interactive ways to explore the connection between movement, mindfulness, and overall health. Launched in 2023 by the Governor’s Advisory Council on Physical Fitness and Mental Well-Being, the California Department of Health Care Services, and the California Department of Public Health, this statewide campaign expands access to resources to help Californians of all ages lead healthier lives.
[California Love, California Strong]( aims to strengthen a deeper sense of belonging across the Golden State through self care, service, and social connection. Launched earlier this year, this initiative brings together Californians to build community and resilience amidst the fight against loneliness and isolation.
[First Partner]( [Health care]( [Press releases](
[Facebook]( "Facebook")[X]( "X")[Email]( "Email")[Copy Link]( "Copy Link")
May 29, 2026
News What you need to know: Following the Governor and Legislature’s extension of California’s Cap-and-Invest Program through 2045 last year, CARB updated the program to follow legislative direction to balance affordability, jobs and near-term economic concerns while...
May 29, 2026
News What you need to know: Today, 39 Company Officers graduated from Ione Training Center, adding to the more than 3,300 that have joined CAL FIRE since 2019. Under Governor Newsom’s leadership California has made historic investments into wildfire preparedness and...
May 29, 2026
News SACRAMENTO – Governor Gavin Newsom today issued a proclamation declaring May 2026, as "Foster Care Month."The text of the proclamation and a copy can be found below: PROCLAMATIONDuring Foster Care Month, we reaffirm to the more than 40,000 foster children and...
