Story's url: https://www.dcceew.gov.au/about/news/massive-seizure-illegal-exotic-cockroaches-prompts-warning

[ Skip to page navigation ](
5 June 2026
The Department of Climate Change, Energy, Environment and Water (DCCEEW) has issued a warning to pet-related businesses and reptile keepers after more than 100,000 live exotic cockroaches were seized this week from a commercial breeder in Bathurst, New South Wales.
This is the largest seizure of illegal exotic invertebrates in Australia, with an estimated value of up to $200,000. The seizure included dubia cockroaches and Madagascar hissing cockroaches.
These species cannot be legally imported into Australia. This also means they cannot be legally kept, bred, or sold no matter how they were obtained.
Exotic cockroaches have not been subject to an environmental risk assessment, and their presence in Australia may spread disease and harm native wildlife and agriculture.
NSW Department of Primary Industries and Regional Development (DPIRD) Biosecurity Collections are managing the euthanasia and disposal of the seized cockroaches.
Only species included on the [Live Import List]( "Live Import List") can be legally imported into Australia.
**Quotes from a Department of Climate Change, Energy, Environment and Water (DCCEEW) spokesperson**
“We take our job protecting Australia’s unique biodiversity and breaches of national environment law very seriously. 
“We’re seeing illegal breeding and trading of exotic cockroaches and we’re putting pet businesses and pet owners on notice.
“If you are found to possess, breed or trade exotic cockroaches such as dubia cockroaches and Madagascar hissing cockroaches they will be seized and you could face penalties under federal law.
“Reptile owners who have been using dubia roaches as feeders are encouraged to seek legal alternatives such as crickets and wood roaches.
“For more information you can call 1800 110 395. To report illegal wildlife activities visit the DCCEEW website.”
**Image/Video:**  
[  link)](
mediateam@dcceew.gov.au
(61 2) 5156 4570
  * Media release
22 May 2026
  * Media release
14 April 2026
  * Media release
25 February 2026
[All news](
