Story's url: https://www.dcceew.gov.au/about/news/securing-australias-fuel-supply

[ Skip to page navigation ](
3 June 2026
**Last updated 3 June 2026**
Global events are impacting fuel supply chains across the world. We know people are worried and feeling uncertain - but we are safe, planning and acting early, and our fuel supply is strong and secure. More stock is on the way to our shores.
The Australian Government has taken strong, early action to broaden our fuel supply.
These actions include:
  * **Strengthening Australia’s fuel resilience:**
    * **Securing more fuel internationally** through the $7.5 billion Fuel and Fertiliser Security Facility
    * **Building long term fuel resilience** through the $3.2 billion Australian Fuel Security Reserve and increasing the Minimum Stockholding Obligation (MSO), to increase Australia’s reserves of diesel and jet fuel to 50 days
    * **Strengthening the Fuel Security Services Payment** to ensure the future of Australia’s last two remaining oil refineries, and providing $10 million in 2026-27 to develop feasibility studies to expand our domestic refining capacity
    * $54.7 million over five years from 2025-26 to manage **Australia’s Fuel Security Framework**
    * $9.2 million over two years from 2025-26 to deliver a nationally coordinated approach to managing disruptions to fuel supply chains through the Fuel Supply Taskforce
    * Find out more [Joint media release: Strengthening Australia's fuel resilience | Ministers(external link)](
  * **Government price relief measures:**
    * **Reduce fuel excise:** The government announced it will halve the Australian fuel excise for the next 3 months starting from Wednesday 1 April. This will save Australians around $26.3 cents a litre at the bowser, reducing the cost of a 65-litre tank of fuel by nearly $19.
    * **A further 5.7 cents a litre cost** will be delivered through an additional $400 million in fuel relief. The states and territories have agreed with the Australian Government to forego increased GST revenue to deliver an extra 10.9% cut to fuel excise for 3 months
    * **Reduce heavy vehicle user charge:** The Australian heavy vehicle road user charge will be zero for the next 3 months starting from Wednesday 1 April.
  * **National Fuel Security Plan:**
    * National Cabinet has agreed to the [National Fuel Security Plan(external link)]( This is a coordinated response to support our fuel security and supply chain resilience considering the ongoing conflict in the Middle East.
    * The plan outlines a 4-stage plan on how governments will work together to keep Australia open and the economy moving:
      1. plan and prepare
      2. keeping Australia moving
      3. taking targeted action
      4. protecting critical services for all Australians.
We are currently at stage 2. Any shift in stage will be approved by the National Cabinet.
By taking a [few simple actions(external link)]( to use less fuel, we can all help our supply go further and help save fuel for truckies, farmers and essential services.
Learn more on the [National Fuel Security Campaign webpage(external link)](
  * **Increased fuel supply to support our regions:**
The Australian Government has:
    * 690 million litres of diesel
    * 150 million litres of jet fuel.
  * extended the [20% reduction of the Minimum Stockholding Obligation(external link)]( (MSO) for diesel and petrol to 30 September 2026. This measure provides ongoing flexibility for industry to respond quickly in the event of another significant spike in demand.
  * worked with industry to increase fuel supply to service stations. This includes helping the fuel sector to secure [authorisation from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) (external link)]( coordinate supply and unlock bottlenecks.
  * worked with the Coalition of Peaks and other First Nations groups to [support fuel, energy and food security in remote First Nations communities(external link)](
  * **Supporting our refineries:**
    * amending the [Fuel Security Services Payment]( "Fuel Security Services Payment"). Paving the way for our refineries to embrace new technologies while [delivering the petrol and diesel we need to keep Australians moving(external link)](
  * **Adjusting fuels standards to keep more fuel in Australia:**
    * temporarily [amending Australia’s fuel quality standards(external link)]( to allow higher sulfur levels, to allow around 100 million litres a month of new petrol supply
    * a [six-month adjustment to lower the flashpoint for diesel(external link)]( increasing diesel supply options from refiners and international sources.
  * **Improving government coordination and response:**
    * appointing a [Fuel Security Taskforce Coordinator(external link)]( This is to ensure Australia is overprepared and quick to respond when facing fuel and other supply chain challenges arising from the conflict in the Middle East.
    * publishing latest available statistics on fuel stocks held in Australia under the [Minimum Stockholding Obligation]( "Minimum stockholding obligation \(MSO\) for liquid fuels: statistics") on a weekly basis, rather than quarterly. This will support increased access to timely information.
  * **Shoring up global fuel supply while benefiting Australians:**
    * working closely with regional partners to strengthen energy security and supply, including:
28 May 2026
26 May 2026
23 May 2026
[All news](
