## Looking for information?
Use our **AI search** to ask us a question or use keywords to search for pages or documents.
_Example: "How do I apply for a financial institution licence?", "FMA Annual Report 2024"_
Like many organisations, we use technology on our website to collect information that helps us enhance the experience of our site. The cookies we use allow our website to work and help us to better understand what information is most useful to you.
Accept
[](https://www.fma.govt.nz/news/all-releases/media-releases/ "All releases")
Page last updated: 09 September 2024
# Media releases
**For media enquiries, please contact**
Please note the Media Relations team deals with **media queries only**. For all other queries, please refer to our [Contact page](https://www.fma.govt.nz/contact/) for the appropriate contact details. 
For announcements, statements and media releases - [Subscribe to our email alerts and updates.](https://www.fma.govt.nz/subscribe-to-fma-news-and-alerts/)
832 results found 
Sort by: Relevance Sort by: Date (Newest First) Sort by: Date (Oldest First)
     * FMA expands its FinTech sandbox to support innovation with new on ramp licensing and publishes tokenisation insights for New Zealand markets.
     * ASB fined $2.1m for fair dealing breaches affecting 25000 customers after failures in discounts and fee exemptions.
     * Former NZ adviser David McEwen sentenced for breaching FMA Stop Order with fines bans and investor harm warnings in New Zealand markets
     * FMA update on Chance Voight Group liquidation proceedings interim liquidation by PwC High Court dates and public interest developments.
     * FMG admits misleading statements after FMA investigation with $2.1m payment and customer remediation over specified items and indexation issues.
     * Official warning from the FMA and Reserve Bank of Tonga about the BG Wealth / DSJ EX crypto Ponzi scam targeting communities.
     * The FMA has released its latest market cleanliness report, analysing insider trading trends on the NZX from 2004 to 2025.
     * FMA warns AIOI for failing to apply motor insurance discounts with 5055 customers overcharged and highlights issues with controls and systems
     * FMA announces new board appointments including Steven Bardy as Deputy Chair and welcomes Philip Doak and Alastair Hercus.
     * FMA urges Chance Voight investors to seek advice before funding Bernard Whimp as liquidation and asset preservation orders proceed.
     * FMA investigates Chance Voight and appoints PwC as interim liquidators for six entities following court action in December 2025.
     * FMA censures Opes for breaching financial advice provider obligations, citing record-keeping, client understanding, and conflict risks.
     * FMA releases Kaupapa Māori research on Māori consumer experiences and innovative providers in Aotearoa financial markets.
     * General insurer Tower has been ordered to pay a $7 million penalty for misleading representations that resulted in more than $11 million in overcharges to its customers. 
     * FMA releases thematic review on financial institutions’ product and service reviews to improve consumer outcomes and fair practices.


[](https://www.fma.govt.nz/news/all-releases/media-releases#page-top)
Aa
- +
