[ Skip to main content ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news-events#main-content)
[ 29 May 2026 Blog Driven by nature: Meet Sarah  Few people can say they knew exactly what they wanted to do for a career at age 13. For Reef Manager Sarah Salmon, the decision was easy. She wanted to become a marine biologist.  ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/driven-nature-meet-sarah)
[ 28 May 2026 Climate change Turtle egg relocation provides future population hope  More than 9,100 turtle hatchlings have begun their life journey after being relocated from Raine Island to Sir Charles Hardy Islands (Wuthathi National Park (Cape York Peninsula Aboriginal Land)) a ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/turtle-egg-relocation-provides-future-population-hope)
### Subscribe to Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority News & Events
## Latest News
[ 29 May 2026 Blog Driven by nature: Meet Sarah  Few people can say they knew exactly what they wanted to do for a career at age 13. For Reef Manager Sarah Salmon, the decision was easy. She wanted to become a marine biologist.  READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/driven-nature-meet-sarah "READ THE STORY")
[ 28 May 2026 Climate change Turtle egg relocation provides future population hope  More than 9,100 turtle hatchlings have begun their life journey after being relocated from Raine Island to Sir Charles Hardy Islands (Wuthathi National Park (Cape York Peninsula Aboriginal Land)) a READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/turtle-egg-relocation-provides-future-population-hope "READ THE STORY")
[ 27 May 2026 Blog All in for National Reconciliation Week  As we mark National Reconciliation Week 2026, the Reef Authority is reflecting on reaching the end of its first Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) and the meaningful progress made over the p READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/all-national-reconciliation-week "READ THE STORY")
[VIEW ALL NEWS](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news)
[VIEW ALL EVENTS](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/events)
Created Thu, 2022-05-12 14:57
Updated 12 May 2022 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders are advised that the content on this website may contain names, images and voices of deceased persons.   
  
Tell us your cookie preferences
We use cookies to make our websites work more efficiently, to personalise your user experience, and to analyse traffic on our websites. Please select one of the following buttons to indicate your cookie preference. Full details about the cookies we use can be found on our Cookies page.
ALLOW ALL COOKIESMANAGE COOKIES
This site uses cookies
Check your settings below and select the cookies you're happy with.
NecessaryNecessary
Necessary cookies help make a website usable by enabling basic functions like page navigation and access to secure areas of the website. The website cannot function properly without these cookies and therefore the law allows us to use them without obtaining your consent.
PreferencesPreferences
Preference cookies enable a website to remember settings that you have chosen which change the way the website behaves or looks eg. your preferred language or the region that you are in.
StatisticsStatistics
Statistics cookies help website owners to understand how visitors interact with websites by collecting and reporting information anonymously.
MarketingMarketing
Marketing cookies are used to track visitors across websites. The intention is to display ads that are relevant and engaging for the individual user.
You can update your preferences at any time or learn more by visiting the [Cookies page](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/cookies).
SAVE PREFERENCES
