[ Skip to main content ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news#main-content)
# News
[ 14 Apr 2026 Reef health Reef survey heads north to check Cyclone Narelle damage  A Reef survey voyage is heading from Cairns to Thursday Island to check the impact of Severe Tropical Cyclone Narelle on the far northern Great Barrier Reef. READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/reef-survey-heads-north-check-cyclone-narelle-damage "READ THE STORY")
[ 7 Apr 2026 Blog A home on the Reef: Meet James  With only six months left on his Australian visa, James Unsworth boarded a Greyhound bus and headed south, not knowing the journey would shape the next decade of his life. READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/home-reef-meet-james "READ THE STORY")
[ 2 Apr 2026 Compliance and zoning Shark-smart behaviour the key to sustainable fishing  Shark-smart behaviour is one of the keys to sustainable fishing on the Great Barrier Reef with new research revealing the hidden financial cost of shark depredation. READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/shark-smart-behaviour-key-sustainable-fishing "READ THE STORY")
[ 2 Apr 2026 Blog Chief Scientist on the release of the National Marine Science Strategy  Nowhere is Australia’s connection to our oceans more visible, or more vulnerable, than on the Great Barrier Reef. READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/chief-scientist-release-national-marine-science-strategy "READ THE STORY")
[ 31 Mar 2026 Blog Inspiring the next generation of Reef stewards during Sea Week  What happens when a classroom full of Reef Guardian students get the chance to ask the Chief Scientist their biggest questions about the Great Barrier Reef? READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/inspiring-next-generation-reef-stewards-during-sea-week "READ THE STORY")
[ 30 Mar 2026 Blog Looking beyond summer: what winter tells us about coral bleaching risk  A new study from researchers at James Cook University highlights the importance of the conditions leading into summer, showing how winter temperatures can influence coral resilience months later. READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/looking-beyond-summer-what-winter-tells-us-about-coral-bleaching-risk "READ THE STORY")
[ 25 Mar 2026 Crown-of-thorns starfish Early intervention the key to COTS control  The Reef Authority’s Crown-of-thorns Starfish (COTS) Control Program will re-deploy resources to protect priority reefs in the Northern region over the next 12-months, with field intelligence confi READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/early-intervention-key-cots-control "READ THE STORY")
[ 23 Mar 2026 Compliance and zoning Joint media release: Refitted Reef Ranger ready for patrol  A $2.9 million refit jointly delivered by the Albanese and Crisafulli Governments has upgraded the Reef Ranger with renewable fuel engines, solar power and efficiency improvements to reduce emissio READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/joint-media-release-refitted-reef-ranger-ready-patrol "READ THE STORY")
[ 23 Mar 2026 Corporate Master Reef Guides training connects rainforest and Reef!  The ninth cohort of Master Reef Guides has experienced firsthand how the world’s only neighbouring World Heritage sites - the Great Barrier Reef and Wet Tropics rainforest - are ecologically and cu READ THE STORY ](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/news/master-reef-guides-training-connects-rainforest-and-reef "READ THE STORY")
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders are advised that the content on this website may contain names, images and voices of deceased persons.   
  
Tell us your cookie preferences
We use cookies to make our websites work more efficiently, to personalise your user experience, and to analyse traffic on our websites. Please select one of the following buttons to indicate your cookie preference. Full details about the cookies we use can be found on our Cookies page.
ALLOW ALL COOKIESMANAGE COOKIES
This site uses cookies
Check your settings below and select the cookies you're happy with.
NecessaryNecessary
Necessary cookies help make a website usable by enabling basic functions like page navigation and access to secure areas of the website. The website cannot function properly without these cookies and therefore the law allows us to use them without obtaining your consent.
PreferencesPreferences
Preference cookies enable a website to remember settings that you have chosen which change the way the website behaves or looks eg. your preferred language or the region that you are in.
StatisticsStatistics
Statistics cookies help website owners to understand how visitors interact with websites by collecting and reporting information anonymously.
MarketingMarketing
Marketing cookies are used to track visitors across websites. The intention is to display ads that are relevant and engaging for the individual user.
You can update your preferences at any time or learn more by visiting the [Cookies page](https://www2.gbrmpa.gov.au/cookies).
SAVE PREFERENCES
